---
title: "Interests, Evidence and Games"
description: |
 Pragmatic encroachment theories have a problem with evidence. On the one hand, the arguments that knowledge is interest-relative look like they will generalise to show that evidence too is interest-relative. On the other hand, our best story of how interests affect knowledge presupposes an interest-invariant notion of evidence. The aim of this paper is to sketch a theory of evidence that is interest-relative, but which allows that 'best story' to go through with minimal changes. The core idea is that the evidence someone has is just what evidence a radical interpreter says they have. And a radical interpreter is playing a kind of game with the person they are interpreting. The cases that pose problems for pragmatic encroachment theorists generate fascinating games between the interpreter and the interpretee. They are games with multiple equilibria. To resolve them we need to detour into the theory of equilibrium selection. I'll argue that the theory we need is the theory of **risk-dominant equilibria**. That theory will tell us how the interpreter will play the game, which in turn will tell us what evidence the person has. The evidence will be interest-relative, because what the equilibrium of the game is will be interest-relative. But it will not undermine the story we tell about how interests usually affect knowledge.
date: June 29 2018
author:
  - name: Brian Weatherson 
    url: http://brian.weatherson.org
    affiliation: University of Michigan
    affiliation_url: https://umich.edu
    orcid_id: 0000-0002-0830-141X
doi: "10.1017/epi.2018.26"
categories:
  - epistemology
  - interest-relativity
  - games and decisions
citation_url: https://doi.org/10.1017/epi.2018.26
journal:
    title: "Episteme"
    publisher: "Cambridge University Press"
volume: 15
number: 3
citation: false
bibliography: ../../../articles/Rbib.bib
self-contained: false
preview: stag.jpg
output:
  distill::distill_article:
    toc: true
    toc_depth: 3
    number_sections: true
---

Pragmatic encroachment theories have a problem with evidence. On the one
hand, the arguments that knowledge is interest-relative look like they
will generalise to show that evidence too is interest-relative. On the
other hand, our best story of how interests affect knowledge presupposes
an interest-invariant notion of evidence.

<aside>
Published in _Episteme_ 15: 329-344.

Image by [Paul Wordingham](https://www.flickr.com/photos/13422316@N00/) via [Creative Commons](https://search.creativecommons.org/photos/457692bc-4ca5-4f3d-a964-d0840e034e3a).
</aside>

The aim of this paper is to sketch a theory of evidence that is
interest-relative, but which allows that 'best story' to go through with
minimal changes. The core idea is that the evidence someone has is just
what evidence a radical interpreter says they have. And a radical
interpreter is playing a kind of game with the person they are
interpreting. The cases that pose problems for pragmatic encroachment
theorists generate fascinating games between the interpreter and the
interpretee. They are games with multiple equilibria. To resolve them we
need to detour into the theory of equilibrium selection. I'll argue that
the theory we need is the theory of **risk-dominant equilibria**. That
theory will tell us how the interpreter will play the game, which in
turn will tell us what evidence the person has. The evidence will be
interest-relative, because what the equilibrium of the game is will be
interest-relative. But it will not undermine the story we tell about how
interests usually affect knowledge.

### Encroachment, Reduction and Explanation {#encroachmentreductionandexplanation}

I will start with an argument for a familiar disjunctive conclusion:
either knowledge is interest-relative, or scepticism is true. The
argument will resemble arguments to the same disjunctive conclusion in
@Hawthorne2004 and @FantlMcGrath2009. Indeed, it is inspired by those
discussions. But it uses less controversial premises than previous
versions.

The argument starts by considering a game, one I'll call the red-blue
game. Here are the rules of the game.

1.  Two sentences will be written on the board, one in red, one in blue.

2.  The player will make two choices.

3.  First, they will pick a colour, red or blue.

4.  Second, they say whether the sentence in that colour is true or
    false.

5.  If they are right, they win. If not, they lose.

6.  If they win, they get \$50, and if they lose, they get nothing.

Our player is Parveen. She is an epistemologist who works on pragmatic
encroachment, and (as will become important in a minute), she has
frequently cited both *Knowledge and Lotteries*  [@Hawthorne2004], and
*Knowledge and Practical Interests*  [@Stanley2005]. She knows the rules
of the game, and no other relevant facts about the game. When the game
starts, the following two sentences are written on the board, the first
in red, the second in blue.

1.  Two plus two equals four.

2.  *Knowledge and Lotteries* was published before *Knowledge and
    Practical Interests*.

Intuitively, there is a unique rational play in this game: Red-True.
That is, Parveen announces that she will evaluate the truth value of the
red sentence, and then announce that it's true. That's a sure \$50.

On the other hand, in normal circumstances, we would say that Parveen
does know that *Knowledge and Lotteries* was published before *Knowledge
and Practical Interests*. After all, she has looked up their publication
dates many times in checking over her papers.

There is a puzzle in reconciling these intuitions. The pragmatic
encroachment theorist has a solution to these puzzles. In normal
circumstances, Parveen does know that *Knowledge and Lotteries* was
published before *Knowledge and Practical Interests*. But these are not
normal circumstances. Right now, it matters whether her reason to
believe that *Knowledge and Lotteries* was published before *Knowledge
and Practical Interests* is as strong as her reason to believe that two
plus two equals four. And (unless something very weird is happening),
that isn't true for Parveen. So she knows that red-true will win, she
doesn't know any other play will win, so she should play Red-True.

If we reject pragmatic encroachment, and we are not sceptics, we should
say that Parveen does know that *Knowledge and Lotteries* was published
before *Knowledge and Practical Interests*. And then it is a mystery why
playing Red-True is more rational than playing Blue-True. After all,
Parveen knows the rules of the game, and she knows (by hypothesis) the
blue sentence is true, so if she can do even basic logical reasoning in
a knowledge preserving way, she knows she will get as good a result as
possible by playing Blue-True. So it is a bit of a mystery why it would
be anything other than maximally rational to play Blue-True.

One way we might try to resolve this mystery is by saying that although
Parveen knows that Blue-True will win \$50, she super-knows that
Red-True will win \$50. What do we mean here by *super knowledge*? Think
of this as a placeholder for certainty, or knowledge that one knows, or
anything other epistemic state that you think might be relevant to her
practical decision making. Perhaps the fact that she super-knows what
two plus two is, but doesn't super-know when the epistemology books were
published, could be the explanation for why Red-True is the unique
rational play.[^1]

But no such explanation can work, because Parveen doesn't super-know
that playing Red-True will win \$50. She super-knows that two plus two
is four. But we have not assumed that she super-knows the rules of the
game. So she doesn't super-know that Red-True will win, she just knows
it. And she also, by hypothesis, knows that Blue-True will win. So
looking at any kind of super-knowledge can't break the intuitive
asymmetry between Red-True and Blue-True.

Put another way, if Parveen knows that *Knowledge and Lotteries* was
published before *Knowledge and Practical Interests*, then she knows
that she is playing the following game.

1.  Two sentences will be written on the board, one in red, one in blue.

2.  The player chooses to play either Blue-True, Blue-False, Red-True,
    or Red-False.

3.  If they play Blue-True, they win \$50.

4.  If they play Blue-False, they win nothing.

5.  If they play Red-True, they win \$50 if the red sentence is true,
    and nothing otherwise.

6.  If they play Red-False, they win \$50 if the red sentence is false,
    and nothing otherwise.

And is is rational to play Blue-True in that game. (It might also be
rational to pay Red-True depending on what the red sentence is, but it
is always rational to play Blue-True.) Yet it is not rational to play
Blue-True in the original game. So Parveen does not know, when she plays
the original game, that *Knowledge and Lotteries* was published before
*Knowledge and Practical Interests*.

So to avoid pragmatic encroachment here we must deny that Parveen ever
knew that *Knowledge and Lotteries* was published before *Knowledge and
Practical Interests*. On its own, that's not a sceptical conclusion:
lots of people don't know that. But once we go down that path, it looks
like not much knowledge will be left. After all, we can repeat the game
with any number of different things in the place of the blue sentence.
If we adopt the constraint that Parveen only knows *p*, right now, if it
is rationally permissible for her to play Blue-True when *p* is the blue
sentence, no matter what the red sentence is, then either we have to say
very unintuitive things about rational plays of the game, or we have to
say she knows very little.

So we've got the conclusion that either pragmatic encroachment is true,
or scepticism is true. Since I'm not a sceptic, I'm happy to conclude
that pragmatic encroachment is true. But note that we've done this
without any reference to high stakes situations. The stakes in Parveen's
game are just \$50. That's not nothing, but it's not 'high stakes' in
the way that phrase is normally used.

The version of pragmatic encroachment we get is that what matters for
knowledge are not the stakes involved in any bet on *p*, but the
odds.[^2] Parveen loses knowledge because she is being asked, in effect,
to make a super long odds bet on a fact about publication schedules. She
is in no position to rationally make a bet at those odds. So she doesn't
know the fact about publication schedules.

And that's the general principle: agents only know a proposition if they
are in a position to rationally bet on that proposition at the odds
currently being offered to them. In practice, high stakes situations
tend to feature bets at long odds, so in practice much knowledge
dissipates in high stakes cases. But the explanation of the dissipation
is the odds the agent faces, not the stakes.

More precisely, I endorse these principles as constraints on knowledge:

-   If the agent knows that *p*, then for any question they have an
    interest in, the answer to that question is identical to the answer
    to that question conditional on *p*.

-   When an agent is considering the choice between two options, the
    question of which option has a higher expected utility given their
    evidence is a question they have an interest in.

Those principles are meant to not merely be extensionally adequate. They
are meant to explain why agents lose knowledge when considering some
sets of options, like in the Red-Blue game. In some sense, they are
meant to be part of reductive explanations. These reductive explanations
take as primitive inputs facts about the agent's evidence, and facts
about evidential probability. I'm going to set aside worries about the
metaphysics of evidential probability, and just focus on evidence.
Because it turns out that there is a real problem in getting a plausible
theory of evidence that can function as an input to that reductive
explanation.

### The Problems with Evidence {#theproblemswithevidence}

Go back to the red-blue game. Consider a version of the game where:

-   The red sentence is that two plus two equals four.

-   The blue sentence is something that, if known, would be part of the
    agent's evidence.

I'm going to argue that there are cases where the only rational play is
Red-True, but the blue sentence is something we want to say that,
ordinarily, the subject knows. And I'll argue that this is a problem for
the kind of reductive explanation I just sketched. If pragmatic effects
matter to what the evidence is, we can't take the evidence as a fixed
input into an explanation of how and when pragmatic effects matter.

Let's have Parveen play the game again. She's going to be playing the
game in a restaurant, one in Ann Arbor where she lives. Just before the
game starts, she notices an old friend, Rahul, across the room. Rahul is
someone she knows well, and can ordinarily recognise, but she had no
idea he was in town. She thought Rahul was living in Italy. Still, we
would ordinarily say that she now knows Rahul is in the restaurant;
indeed that he is in the restaurant. It would be perfectly acceptable
for her to say to someone else, "I saw Rahul here", for example. Now the
game starts.

-   The red sentence is *Two plus two equals four*.

-   The blue sentence is *Rahul is in this restaurant*.

Now we have a problem. On the one hand, there is only one rational play
here: Red-True. If you haven't seen someone for a long time, then you
can't be completely certain it's them when you spot them across a
restaurant. It would be foolish to be as confident that it's Rahul as
that two and two make four. It looks like this is a case where pragmatic
effects defeat knowledge.

On the other hand, our story for why Parveen loses knowledge here has
run into problems. I wanted to tell a story roughly like the following.
She can't play Blue-True when the probability of the blue sentence,
given her evidence, is less than the probability of the red sentence,
given her evidence. That explanation can only go through if the blue
sentence is itself not part of her evidence, since the probability of
anything given itself is one. So we need a story about how it is that it
is not part of Parveen's evidence that Rahul is not in the restaurant.

That story can't be the one that presupposes facts about what is in
Parveen's evidence. So it can't use facts about the probability of some
proposition given her evidence; at least not in any simple way. If we
can independently identify Parveen's evidence, then we can go back to
using evidential probability. But until we've done that, we're stuck.

There are two options here that seem possible for the pragmatic
encroachment theorist, but not particularly attractive.

One is to say that propositions like *Rahul is in this restaurant* are
never part of Parveen's evidence. Perhaps her evidence just consists of
things like *I am being appeared to Rahul-like*. Such an approach is
problematic for two reasons. The first is that it is subject to all the
usual objections to psychological theories of evidence
 [@Williamson2007-WILTPO-17]. The second is that we can re-run the
argument with the blue sentence being some claim about Parveen's
psychological state, and still get the result that the only rational
play is Red-True. A retreat to a psychological conception of evidence
will only help with this problem if agents are infallible judges of
their own psychological states, and that is not in general true
 [@Schwitzgebel2008].

Another option is to deny that a reductive explanation is needed here.
Perhaps pragmatic effects, like the particular sentences that are chosen
for this instance of the Red-Blue game, mean that Parveen's evidence no
longer includes facts about Rahul, but this isn't something we can give
a reductive account of. We shouldn't assume that everything will have a
simple reductive explanation, so this isn't so bad in theory. The
problem in practice is that without a reductive explanation, we don't
have a predictive theory of when pragmatic effects matter. And that
seems to be a bad thing. For instance, the following theory is
completely consistent with Parveen's case as described.

1.  E=K; i.e., one's evidence is all and only what one knows.

2.  Someone does not know *p* if the evidential probability of *p* is
    not close enough to one for current purposes.

3.  Since it is part of Parveen's evidence that Rahul is in the
    restaurant, the probability that he is there is one, so it is close
    enough to one for current purposes.

4.  So this is not a case where pragmatic effects change what she knows.

That theory seems to me to be badly mistaken, since it goes on to
predict that it is rationally permissible to play Blue-True. But we need
a pragmatic account that says that it is mistaken, and says something
about which alternative situations would not threaten Parveen's
knowledge. We don't yet, as far as I can see, have such an account. The
aim of the rest of this paper is to provide one.[^3]

### A Simple, but Unsatisfying, Solution {#asimplebutunsatisfyingsolution}

Let's take a step back and look at the puzzle more abstractly. We have
an agent *S*, who has some option *O*, and it really matters whether or
not the value of *O*, i.e., $V(O)$ is at least $x$. It is
uncontroversial that the agent's evidence includes some background $K$,
and controversial whether it includes some contested proposition $p$. It
is also uncontroversial that $V(O | p) \geq x$, and we're assuming that
for any proposition $q$ that is in the agent's evidence,
$V(O | q) = V(O)$. That is, we're assuming the relevant values are
conditional on evidence. We can capture that last assumption with one
big assumption that probably isn't true, but is a harmless idealisation
for these purposes. Say there is a prior value function $V^-$, with a
similar metaphysical status to the mythical, mystical prior probability
function. Then for any choice $C$, $V(C) = V^-(C | E)$, where $E$ is the
evidence the agent has.

Now we're in a position to state a simple, but unsatisfying, solution.
Let $p$ be the proposition that the agent might or might not know, and
the question of whether $V(O) \geq x$ be the only salient one that $p$
is relevant to. Then the agent knows $p$ only if the following is true:

> $\frac{V^-(O | K) + V^-(O | K \wedge p)}{2} \geq x$

That is, we work out the value of $O$ with and without the evidence $p$,
and if the average is greater than $x$, good enough!

That solves the problem of Parveen and Rahul. Parveen's evidence may or
may not include that Rahul is in the restaurant. If it does, then
Blue-True has a value of \$50. If it does not, then Blue-True's value is
somewhat lower. Even if the evidence includes that someone who looks a
lot like Rahul is in the restaurant, the value of Blue-True might only
be \$45. Averaging them out, the value is less than \$50. But you'd only
play Blue-True if it was worthwhile it play it instead of Red-True,
which is worth \$50. So you shouldn't play Blue-True.

Great! Well, great except for two monumental problems. The first problem
is that what we've said here really only helps with very simple cases,
where there is a single decision problem that a single contested
proposition is relevant to. We need some way to generalise the case to
less constrained situations. The second (and bigger) problem is that the
solution is completely ad hoc. Why should we use the arithmetic mean of
these two things rather than any other formula that would have implied
the intuitively correct result in the Parveen-Rahul case? Pragmatic
encroachment starts with a very elegant, very intuitive, principle: you
only know the things you can reasonable take to be settled for the
purposes of current deliberation. And that deliberation should be driven
by the aim of maximising expected utility. It does not look like any
such elegant, intuitive, principles will lead to some theorem about
averaging out the value of an option with and without new evidence.

Happily, the two problems have a common solution. But the solution
requires a detour into some technical work. It's time for some game
theory.

### Gamifying the Problem {#gamifyingtheproblem}

We can usefully think of some philosophical problems as games, and hence
subjects for study using game theoretic techniques. This is especially
when the problems involve interactions of rational agents. Here, for
example, is the game table for Newcomb's problem, with the human who is
usually the focus of the problem as Row, and the demon as Column.[^4]

::: {.center}
                    Predict 1 Box   Predict 2 Boxes
  ---------------- --------------- -----------------
      Choose 1 Box     1000, 1            0,0
    Choose 2 Boxes     1001, 0           1, 1
:::

This game has a unique Nash equilbrium; the bottom right corner.[^5] And
that's one way of motivating the view that (a) the game is possible, and
(b) the rational move for the human is to choose two boxes.

Let's look at a more complicated game. I'll call it The Interpretation
Game. The game has two players. Just like in Newcomb's problem, one of
them is a human, the other is a philosophical invention. But in this
case the invention is not a demon, but The Radical Interpreter.[^6] To
know the payouts for the players, we need to know their value function.
More colloquially, we need to know their goals.

-   The Radical Interpreter assigns mental states to Human in such a way
    as to predict Human's actions given Human rationality. We'll assume
    here that evidence is a mental state, so saying what evidence Human
    has is among Radical Interpreter's tasks. (Indeed, in the game play
    to come, it will be their primary task.)

-   Human acts so as to maximise the expected utility of their action,
    conditional on the evidence that they have. Human doesn't always
    know what evidence they have; it depends on what The Radical
    Interpreter says.

The result is that the game is a coordination game. The Radical
Interpreter wants to assign evidence in a way that predicts rational
Human action, and Human wants to do what's rational given that
assignment of evidence. Coordination games typically have multiple
equilibria, and this one is no exception.

Let's make all that (marginally) more concrete. Human is offered a bet
on *p*. If the bet wins, it wins 1 util; if the bet loses, it loses 100
utils. Human's only choice is to Take or Decline the bet. The
proposition *p*, the subject of the bet, is like the claim that Rahul is
in the restaurant. It is something that is arguably part of Human's
evidence. Unfortunately, it is also arguable that it is not part of
Human's evidence. We will let $K$ be the rest of Human's evidence (apart
from $p$, and things entailed by $K \cup \{p\}$), and stipulate that
$\Pr(p | K) = 0.9$. Each party now faces a choice.

-   The Radical Interpreter has to choose whether *p* is part of Human's
    evidence or not.

-   Human has to decide whether to Take or Decline the bet.

The Radical Interpreter achieves their goal if human takes the bet iff
*p* is part of their evidence. If *p* is part of the evidence, then The
Radical Interpreter thinks that the bet has positive expected utility,
so Human will take it. And if *p* is not part of the evidence, then The
Radical Interpreter thinks that the bet has negative expected utility,
so Human will decline it. Either way, The Radical Interpreter wants
Human's action to coordinate with theirs. And Human, of course, wants to
maximise expected utility. So we get the following table for the game.

::: {.center}
                     $p \in E$   $p \notin E$
  ----------------- ----------- --------------
       Take the bet    1, 1        -9.1, 0
    Decline the bet    0, 0          0, 1
:::

We have, in effect, already covered The Radical Interpreter's payouts.
They win in the top-left and lower-right quadrants, and lose otherwise.
Human's payouts are only a little trickier. In the bottom row, they are
guaranteed 0, since the bet is declined. In the top-left, the bet is a
sure winner; their evidence entails it wins. So they get a payout of 1.
In the top-right, the bet wins with probability 0.9, so the expected
return[^7] of taking it is $1 \times 0.9 - 100 \times 0.1 = -9.1$.

There are two Nash equilibria for the game - I've bolded them below.

::: {.center}
                     $p \in E$   $p \notin E$
  ----------------- ----------- --------------
       Take the bet  **1, 1**      -9.1, 0
    Decline the bet    0, 0        **0, 1**
:::

The mathematical result that there are two equilibria to this game
should not come as a surprise. In discussing games like this earlier, we
said that general principles connecting evidence, knowledge and action
are not predictive; they are consistent both with *p* being part of the
evidence, and with it not being part of the evidence. The general
principles we had stated rule out, in effect, non-equilibrium solutions
to games like this one. But they are not predictive in cases where there
are multiple equilibria.

To make more progress, we need to turn to more contested areas of game
theory. In particular, we need to look at some work on equilibrium
choice. We'll introduce this material via a game that is inspired by an
example of Rousseau's.

### Equilibrium Selection Principles {#equilibriumselectionprinciples}

At an almost maximal level of abstraction, a two player, two option each
game looks like this.

::: {.center}
                $a$                  $b$
  ----- -------------------- --------------------
    $A$  $r_{11}$, $c_{11}$   $r_{12}$, $c_{12}$
    $B$  $r_{21}$, $c_{21}$   $r_{22}$, $c_{22}$
:::

We're going to focus on games that have the following eight properties:

-   $r_{11} > r_{21}$

-   $r_{22} > r_{12}$

-   $c_{11} > c_{12}$

-   $c_{22} > c_{21}$

-   $r_{11} > r_{22}$

-   $c_{11} \geq c_{22}$

-   $\frac{r_{21}+r_{22}}{2} > \frac{r_{11}+r_{12}}{2}$

-   $\frac{c_{12}+c_{22}}{2} \geq \frac{c_{11}+c_{21}}{2}$

The first four clauses say that the game has two (strict) Nash
equilibria: $Aa$ and $Bb$. The fifth and sixth clauses say that the $Aa$
equilibria is **Pareto-optimal**: no one prefers the other equilibria to
it. In fact it says something a bit stronger: one of the players
strictly prefers the $Aa$ equilibria, and the other player does not
prefer $Bb$. The seventh and eighth clauses say that the $Bb$ equilibria
is **risk-optimal**. Risk-optimality is a somewhat complicated notion in
general; see @HarsanyiSelten1988 for more details. But for our purposes,
we can focus on a simple characterisation of it. Neither player would
prefer playing $A$/$a$ to playing $B$/$b$ if they thought it was a coin
flip which equilibrium the other player was aiming for.

I'm going to offer an argument from Hans Carlsson and Eric van Damme
[-@CarlssonVanDamme1993] for the idea that in these games, rational
players will end up at $Bb$. The game that Human and The Radical
Interpreter are playing fits these eight conditions, and The Radical
Interpreter is perfectly rational, so this will imply that in that game,
The Radical Interpreter will say that $p \notin E$, which is what we
aimed to show.

Games satisfying these eight inequalities are sometimes called *Stag
Hunt* games. There is some flexibility, and some vagueness, in which of
the eight inequalities need to be strict, but that level of detail isn't
important here. The name comes from a thought experiment in Rousseau's
*Discourse on Inequality*.

> [T]hey were perfect strangers to foresight, and were so far from
> troubling themselves about the distant future, that they hardly
> thought of the morrow. If a deer was to be taken, every one saw that,
> in order to succeed, he must abide faithfully by his post: but if a
> hare happened to come within the reach of any one of them, it is not
> to be doubted that he pursued it without scruple, and, having seized
> his prey, cared very little, if by so doing he caused his companions
> to miss theirs.  [@Rousseau1913 209--10]

It is rather interesting to think through which real-life situations are
best modeled as Stag Hunts, especially in situations where people have
thought that the right model was a version of Prisoners' Dilemma. This
kind of thought is one way in to appreciating the virtues of Rousseau's
political outlook, and especially the idea that social coordination
might not require anything like the heavy regulatory presence that, say,
Hobbes thought was needed. But that's a story for another day. What
we're going to be interested in is why Rousseau was right to think that
a 'stranger to foresight', who is just focussing on this game, should
take the rabbit.

To make matters a little easier, we'll focus on a very particular
instance of Stag Hunt, as shown here. (From here I'm following Carlsson
and van Damme very closely; this is their example, with just the
labelling slightly altered.)

::: {.center}
         $a$    $b$
  ----- ------ ------
    $A$  4, 4   0, 3
    $B$  3, 0   3, 3
:::

At first glance it might seem like $Aa$ is the right choice; it produces
the best outcome. This isn't like Prisoners Dilemma, where the best
collective outcome is dominated. In fact $Aa$ is the best outcome for
each individual. But it is risky, and Carlsson and van Damme show how to
turn that risk into an argument for choosing $Bb$.

Embed this game in what they call a *global game*. We'll start the game
with each player knowing just that they will play a game with the
following payout table, with $x$ to be selected at random from a flat
distribution over $[-1, 5]$.

::: {.center}
         $a$    $b$
  ----- ------ ------
    $A$  4, 4   0, x
    $B$  x, 0   x, x
:::

Before they play the game, each player will get a noisy signal about the
value of $x$. There will be signals $s_R$ and $s_C$ chosen
(independently) from a flat distribution over $[x - 0.25, x + 0.25]$,
and shown to Row and Column respectively. So each player will know the
value of $x$ to within $\frac{1}{4}$, and know that the other player
knows it to within $\frac{1}{4}$ as well. But this is a margin of error
model, and in those models there is very little that is common
knowledge. That, they argue, makes a huge difference.

In particular, they prove that iterated deletion of strictly dominated
strategies (almost) removes all but one strategy pair.[^8] Each player
will play $A$/$a$ if the signal is greater than 2, and $B$/$b$
otherwise.[^9] Surprisingly, this shows that players should play the
risk-optimal strategy even when they know the other strategy is
Pareto-optimal. When a player gets a signal in $(2, 3.75)$, then they
know that $x < 4$, so $Bb$ is the Pareto-optimal equilibrium. But the
logic of the global game suggests the risk-dominant equilibrium is what
to play.

Carlsson and van Damme go on to show that many of the details of this
case don't matter. As long as (a) there is a margin of error in each
side's estimation of the payoffs, and (b) every choice is a dominant
option in some version of the global game, then iterated deletion of
strongly dominant strategies will lead to each player making the
risk-dominant choice.

I conclude from that that risk-dominant choices are rational in these
games. There is a limit assumption involved here; what's true for games
with arbitrarily small margins of error is true for games with no margin
of error. (We'll come back to that assumption below.) And since The
Radical Interpreter is rational, they will play the strategy that is not
eliminated by deleting dominant strategies. That is, they will play the
risk-dominant strategy.

In game with Human, the rational (i.e., risk-dominant) strategy for The
Radical Interpreter is to say that $p \notin E$. And in the case of
Parveen and Rahul, rational (i.e., risk-dominant) strategy for The
Radical Interpreter is to say that it is not part of Parveen's evidence
that Rahul is in the restaurant. And this is an interest-relative theory
of evidence; had Parveen been playing a different game, The Radical
Interpreter would have said that it is part of Parveen's evidence that
Rahul was in the restaurant.

And from this point we can say all the things we wanted to say about the
case. If it is part of Parveen's evidence that Rahul is in the
restaurant, then she knows this. Conversely, if she knows it, then The
Radical Interpreter would have said it is part of her evidence, so it is
part of her evidence. Parveen will perform the action that maximises
expected utility given her evidence. And she will lose knowledge when
that disposition makes her do things that would be known to be
sub-optimal if she didn't lose knowledge.

In short, this model gives us a way to keep what was good about the
pragmatic encroachment theory, while also allowing that evidence can be
interest-relative. It does require a slightly more complex theory of
rationality than we had previously used. Rather than just say that
agents maximise evidential expected utility, we have to say that they
play risk-dominant strategies in coordination games. But it turns out
that this is little more than saying that they maximise evidential
expected utility, and they expect others (at least perfectly rational
abstract others) to do the same, and they expect those others to expect
they will maximise expected utility, and so on.

### Objections and Replies {#objectionsandreplies}

We'll end the body of the paper with some objections that might be
raised to this model. And then the appendix will contain proofs of a
couple of the formal claims.

*Objection*: The formal result of the previous section only goes through
if we assume that the agents do not know precisely what the payoffs are
in the game. We shouldn't assume that what holds for arbitrarily small
margins of error will hold in the limit, i.e., when they do know the
payoffs.

*Reply*: If pushed, I would defend the use limit assumptions like this
to resolve hard cases like Stag Hunt. But I don't need that assumption
here, What we really need is that Parveen doesn't know precisely the
probability of Rahul being in the restaurant given the rest of her
evidence. Given that evidence is not luminous, as @Williamson2000 shows,
this is a reasonable assumption. So the margin of error assumption that
Carlsson and van Damme make is not, in our case, an assumption that
merely makes the math easier; it is built into the case.

*Objection*: Even if Parveen doesn't know the payoffs precisely, The
Radical Interpreter does. They are an idealisation, so they can be taken
to be ideal.

*Reply*: It turns out that Carlsson and van Damme's result doesn't
require that both parties are ignorant of the precise values of the
payoffs. As long as one party doesn't know the exact value of the
payoff, the argument goes through. I prove this in Appendix Two.

*Objection*: The formal argument requires that in the 'global game'
there are values for $x$ that make $A$ the dominant choice. These cases
serve as a base step for an inductive argument that follows. But in
Parveen's case, there is no such setting for $x$, so the inductive
argument can't get going.

*Reply*: What matters is that there are values of $x$ such that $A$ is
the strictly dominant choice, and Human (or Parveen) doesn't know that
they know that they know, etc., that those values are not actual. And
that's true in our case. For all Human (or Parveen) knows that they know
that they know that they know..., the proposition in question is not
part of their evidence under a maximally expansive verdict on The
Radical Interpreter's part. So the relevant cases are there in the
model, even if for some high value of $n$ they are known$^n$ not to
obtain.

*Objection*: This model is much more complex than the simple motivation
for pragmatic encroachment.

*Reply*: Sadly, this is true. I would like to have a simpler model, but
I don't know how to create one. The argument I gave earlier that our
simple principles underdetermine what to say in cases like Parveen and
Rahul's seems fairly compelling. So more complexity will be needed, one
way or another. I think paying this price in complexity is worth it
overall, but I can see how some people might think otherwise.

*Objection*: Change the case involving Human so that the bet loses 15
utils if *p* is false, rather than 100. Now the risk-dominant
equilibrium is that Human takes the bet, and The Radical Interpreter
says that *p* is part of Human's evidence. But note that if it was
clearly true that *p* was not part of Human's evidence, then this would
still be too risky a situation for them to know *p*. So whether it is
possible that *p* is part of Human's evidence matters.

*Reply*: This is all true, and it shows that the view I'm putting
forward is incompatible with some programs in epistemology. In
particular, it is incompatible with E=K, since the what it takes to be
evidence on this story is slightly different from what it takes to be
knowledge. I don't think E=K is so intuitively obvious that this refutes
the theory, but it is potentially a cost that I have to give it up.

*Objection*: Carlsson and van Damme discuss one kind of global game. But
there are other global games that have different equilibria. For
instance, changing the method by which the noisy signal is selected
would change the equilibrium of the global game. So this kind of
argument can't show that the risk-dominant equilibrium is the one true
solution.

*Reply*: This is somewhat true. There are other ways of embedding the
game involving Human and The Radical Interpreter in global games that
lead to different outcomes. They are usually somewhat artificial; e.g.,
by having the signal be systematically biased in one way. But what
really matters is the game where the error in Human's knowledge of the
payoffs is determined by their actual epistemic limitations. I think
that will lead to something like the model we have here. But it is
possible that the final result will differ a bit from what I have here,
or (more likely) have some indeterminacy about just how interests
interact with evidence and knowledge. The precise details are ultimately
less important to me than whether we can provide a motivated story of
how interests affect knowledge and evidence that does not presuppose we
know what the agent's evidence is. And the method I've outlined here
shows that we can do that, even if we end up tinkering a bit with the
details.

### Appendix One: Carlsson and van Damme's Game {#appendixone:carlssonandvandammesgame .unnumbered}

Two players, Row (or R) and Column (or C) will a version of the
following game.

::: {.center}
         $a$    $b$
  ----- ------ ------
    $A$  4, 4   0, x
    $B$  x, 0   x, x
:::

They won't be told what $x$ is, but they will get a noisy signal of $x$,
drawn from an even distribution over $[x - 0.25, x + 0.25]$. Call these
signals $s_R$ and $s_C$. Each player must then choose $A$, getting
either 4 or 0 depending on the other player's choice, or choose $B$,
getting $x$ for sure.

Before getting the signal, the players must choose a strategy. A
strategy is a function from signals to choices. Since the higher the
signal is, the better it is to play $B$, we can equate strategies with
'tipping points', where the player plays $B$ if the signal is above the
tipping point, and $A$ below the tipping point. Strictly speaking, a
tipping point will pick out not a strategy but an equivalence class of
strategies, which differ in how they act if the signal is the tipping
point. But since that happens with probability 0, the strategies in the
equivalence class have the same expected return, and so we won't aim to
distinguish them.

Also, strictly speaking, there are strategies that are not tipping
points, because they map signals onto probabilities of playing $A$,
where the probability decreases as $A$ rises. I won't discuss these
directly, but it isn't too hard to see how these are shown to be
suboptimal using the argument that is about to come. It eases exposition
to focus on the pure strategies, and to equate these with tipping
points. And since my primary aim here is to explain why the result
holds, not to simply repeat an already existing proof, I'll mostly
ignore these mixed strategies.

Call the tipping points for Row and Column respectively $T_R$ and $T_C$.
Since the game is symmetric, we'll just have to show that in conditions
of common knowledge of rationality, $T_R = 2$. It follows by symmetry
that $T_C = 2$ as well. And the only rule we'll use is iterated deletion
of strictly dominated strategies. That is, we'll assume players won't
play strategies where another strategy does better no matter what the
opponent chooses, and they won't play strategies where another strategy
does better provided the other player does not play a dominated
strategy, and they won't play strategies where another strategy does
better provided the other player does not play a strategy ruled out by
these first two conditions, and so on.

The return to a strategy is uncertain, even given the other player's
strategy. But given the strategies of each player, we can work out an
expected return for each player. And that's what we'll assume is the
return to a strategy pair.

Note first that $T_R = 4.25$ strictly dominates any strategy where
$T_R  = y > 4.25$. If $s_R \in (4.25, y)$, then $T_R$ is guaranteed to
return above 4, and the alternative strategy is guaranteed to return 4.
In all other cases, the strategies have the same return. And there is
some chance that $s_R \in (4.25, y)$. So we can delete all strategies
$T_R  = y > 4.25$, and similarly all strategies $T_C = y > 4.25$. By
similar reasoning, we can rule out $T_R < -0.25$ and $T_C < -0.25$.

If $s_R \in [-0.75, 4.75]$, then it is equally likely that $x$ is above
$s_R$ as it is below it. Indeed, the posterior distribution of $x$ is
flat over $[s_R - 0.25, s_R + 0.25]$. From this it follows that the
expected return of playing $B$ after seeing signal $s_R$ is just $s_R$.

Now comes the important step. Assume that we know that $T_C \leq y > 2$.
Now consider the expected return of playing $A$ given various values for
$s_R > 2$. Given that the lower $T_C$ is, the higher the expected return
is of playing $A$, we'll just work on the simple case where $T_C = y$,
realizing that this is an upper bound on the expected return of $A$
given $T_C \leq y$. The expected return of $A$ is 4 times the
probability that Column will play $a$, i.e., 4 times the probability
that $s_C < T_C$. Given all the symmetries that have been built into the
puzzle, we know that the probability that $s_C < s_R$ is 0.5. So the
expected return of playing $A$ is at most 2 if $s_R \geq y$. But the
expected return of playing $B$ is, as we showed in the last paragraph,
$s_R$, which is greater than 2. So it is better to play $B$ than $A$ if
$s_R \geq y$. And the difference is substantial, so even if $s_R$ is
epsilon less than that $y$, it will still be better to play $B$. (This
is hand-wavy of course, but we'll make it rigorous in just a second.)

So if $T_C \leq y > 2$ we can prove that $T_R$ should be lower still,
because given that assumption it is better to play $B$ even if the
signal is just less than $y$. Repeating this reasoning over and over
again pushes us to it being better to play $B$ than $A$ as long as
$s_R > 2$. And the same kind of reasoning from the opposite end pushes
us to it being better to play $A$ than $B$ as long as $s_R < 2$. So we
get $s_R = 2$ as the uniquely rational solution to the game.

Let's make that a touch more rigorous. Assume that $T_C = y$, and $s_r$
is slightly less than $y$. In particular, we'll assume that
$z = y - s_R$ is in $(0, 0.5)$. Then the probability that $s_C < y$ is
$0.5 + 2z - 2z^2$. So the expected return of playing $A$ is
$2 + 8z - 8z^2$. And the expected return of playing $B$ is, again,
$s_R$. These will be equal when the following is true. (The working out
is a tedious but trivial application of the quadratic formula, plus some
rearranging.)

$$s_R = y + \frac{\sqrt{145-32y} - 9}{16}$$ So if we know that
$T_C \geq y$, we know that $T_R \geq y + \frac{\sqrt{145-32y} - 9}{16}$,
which will be less than $y$ if $y > 2$. And then by symmetry, we know
that $T_C$ must be at most as large as that as well. And then we can use
that fact to derive a further upper bound on $T_R$ and hence on $T_C$,
and so on. And this will continue until we push both down to 2. It does
require quite a number of steps of iterated deletion. Here is the upper
bound on the threshold after $n$ rounds of deletion of dominated
strategies. (These numbers are precise for the first two rounds, then
just to three significant figures after that.)

::: {.center}
   Round   Upper Bound on Threshold
  ------- --------------------------
     1              4.250
     2              3.875
     3              3.599
     4              3.378
     5              3.195
     6              3.041
     7              2.910
     8              2.798
     9              2.701
    10              2.617
:::

That is, $T_R = 4.25$ dominates any strategy with a tipping point above
4.25. And $T_R = 3.875$ dominates any strategy with a higher tipping
point than that, assuming $T_C \leq 4.25$. And $T_R \approx 3.599$
dominates any strategy with a higher tipping point than that, assuming
$T_C \leq 3.875$. And so on.

And similar reasoning shows that at each stage not only are all
strategies with higher tipping points dominated, but so are strategies
that assign positive probability (whether it is 1 or less than 1), to
playing $A$ when the signal is above the 'tipping point'. So this kind
of reasoning rules out all mixed strategies (except those that respond
probabilistically to $s_R = 2$).

So we've shown what was intended, namely that iterated deletion of
dominated strategies will rule out all strategies except the
risk-optimal equilibrium. We needed the possibility that $x$ is greater
than the maximal return for $A$ to get the iterated dominance going. And
we needed the signal to have an error bar to it, so that each round of
iteration removes more strategies. But that's all we needed; the
particular values we chose are irrelevant to the proof.

### Appendix Two: The Modified Game {#appendixtwo:themodifiedgame .unnumbered}

The aim of this section is to prove something that Carllson and van
Damme did not prove, namely that the analysis of the previous appendix
goes through with very little change if one party gets a perfect signal,
while the other gets a noisy signal. That is, we're going to consider
the game that is just like the game of appendix one, but it is common
knowledge that the signal Column gets, $s_C$, equals $x$.

Since the game is no longer symmetric, we can't appeal to the symmetry
of the game as we frequently did in the previous appendix. But this only
slows the proof down, it doesn't stop it.

We can actually rule out slightly more at the first step in this game
than in the previous game. Since Column could not be wrong about $x$,
Column knows that if $s_C > 4$ then playing $b$ dominates playing $a$.
So one round of deleting dominated strategies rules out $T_C > 4$, as
well as ruling out $T_R > 4.25$.

At any stage, if we know $T_C \leq y > 2$, then $T_R = y$ dominates
$T_R > y$. That's because if $s_R \geq y$, and $T_C \leq y$, then the
probability that Column will play $a$ (given Row's signal) is less than
0.5. After all, the signal is just as likely to be above $x$ as below it
(as long as the signal isn't too close to the extremes). So if $s_R$ is
at or above $T_C$, then it is at least 0.5 likely that $s_C = x$ is at
or above $T_C$. So the expected return of playing $A$ is at most 2. But
the expected return of playing $B$ equals the signal, which is greater
than 2. So if Row knows $T_C \leq y > 2$, Row also knows it is better to
play $B$ if $s_R \geq y$. And that just means that $T_R \leq y$.

Assume now that it is common knowledge that $T_R \leq y$, for some
$y > 2$. And assume that $x = s_C$ is just a little less than $y$. In
particular, define $z = y -x$, and assume $z \in (0, 0.25)$. We want to
work out the upper bound on the expected return to Column of playing
$a$. (The return of playing $b$ is known, it is $x$.) The will be
highest when $T_R$ is lowest, so assume $T_R \leq y$. Then the
probability that Row plays $A$ is $(1 + 2z)/2$. So the expected return
of playing $a$ is $2 + 4z$, i.e., $2 + 4(y - x)$. That will be greater
than $x$ only when

$$x < \frac{2 + 4y}{5}$$ And so if it is common knowledge that
$T_R \leq y$, then it is best for Column to play $b$ unless
$x < \frac{2 + 4y}{5}$. That is, if it is common knowledge that
$T_R \leq y$, then $T_C$ must be at most $\frac{2 + 4y}{5}$.

So now we proceed in a zig-zag fashion. At one stage, we show that $T_R$
must be as low as $T_C$. At the next, we show that if it has been proven
that $T_R$ takes a particular value greater than 2, then $T_C$ must be
lower still. And this process will eventually rule out all values for
$T_R$ and $T_C$ greater than 2.

This case is crucial to the story of the paper because The Radical
Interpreter probably does not have an error bar in their estimation of
the game they are playing. But it turns out the argument for
risk-dominant equilibria being the unique solution to interpretation
games is consistent with that. As long as one player has a margin of
error, each player should play the risk-dominant equilibria.

[^1]: That we need some kind of super-knowledge for action, and not mere
    knowledge, is a popular, and natural, explanation of the case. For
    versions of this explanation, obviously with more details than I've
    given here, see for example Jessica @Brown2008 and Jennifer
    @Lackey2010.

[^2]: Jessica @Brown2008 [176] shows that pragmatic encroachment
    theories that rely just on the stakes involved are subject to
    serious counterexample. Katherine @Rubin2015 argues that if we have
    a 'global' version of pragmatic encroachment, where all our
    epistemic notions are interest-relative, then it is implausible that
    it is the stakes the subject faces that matter for knowledge. Since
    I'm defending such a global version of pragmatic encroachment,
    Rubin's arguments show that it is important that I'm relying on
    odds, not stakes. Baron @Reed2014 argues that if it is stakes alone
    that matter to pragmatic encroachment, then agents who the pragmatic
    encroachment theorist takes to be perfectly rational would be
    subject to a Dutch Book.

[^3]: You can read this paper as a reply to the challenge posed by
    @IchikawaEtAl2012. They note that there are challenges facing the
    pragmatic encroachment theorist whether they make evidence
    interest-relative, or interest-invariant. I'm going to show how to
    have an interest-relative theory of evidence, and keep what was
    desirable about pragmatic encroachment theories.

[^4]: In these games, Row chooses a row, and Column chooses a column,
    and that determines the cell that is the outcome of the game. The
    cells include two numbers. The first is Row's payout, and the second
    is Column's. The games are non-competitive; the players are simply
    trying to maximise their own returns, not maximise the difference
    between their return and the other player's return.

[^5]: A Nash equilibrium is an outcome of the game where every player
    does as well as they can given the moves of the other players.
    Equivalently, it is an outcome where no player can improve their
    payout by unilaterally defecting from the equilibrium.

[^6]: The Radical Interpreter feels like they should be a humanesque
    character in *Alice in Wonderland* or *The Phantom Tollbooth*, but
    for now they are resolutely abstract.

[^7]: I am making a large, if orthodox, assumption here: that the
    payouts that we use for equilibrium analysis should be expected
    returns, not actual returns. I think that's the right thing to do,
    since it is usually impossible to say what the actual return of a
    game is. Even when we say that the payout is a certain number of
    dollars, we are really saying that the return is a certain kind of
    gamble. Maybe the value of the currency will deprecate quickly, and
    the dollars are not that valuable. Maybe the revolution will come
    and wealth will be a liability. Almost all games have probabilistic
    payouts, and this game is no different.

[^8]: A sketch of the proof is in Appendix One.

[^9]: Strictly speaking, we can't rule out various mixed strategies when
    the signal is precisely 2, but this makes little difference, since
    that occurs with probability 0.
