---
title: "Freedom of Research Area"
description: |
  Some writers have said that academic freedom should extend to giving academics complete freedom over what they choose to research. I argue against this: it is consistent with academic freedom for universities to hire people to research particular subjects, and to make continued employment conditional on at least some of the academic’s research being in the areas they were hired to work in. In practice, many academics think that their fellow academics should be free to choose to work on anything that’s within the disciplinary boundaries of the department they were hired into. I argue that’s both too narrow and too broad. Academic freedom implies that researchers should be allowed to have their research focus drift over time. But the boundaries of permissible drift do not correspond to anything like the boundaries of contemporary academic departments.
date: December 25 2018
author:
  - name: Brian Weatherson 
    url: http://brian.weatherson.org
    affiliation: University of Michigan
    affiliation_url: https://umich.edu
    orcid_id: 0000-0002-0830-141X
doi: "10.1093/oso/9780198791508.003.0006"
citation_url: https://doi.org/10.1093/oso/9780198791508.003.0006
citation: false
bibliography: ../../../articles/Rbib.bib
self-contained: false
preview: mcad.jpg
output:
  distill::distill_article:
    toc: false
    toc_depth: 3
    number_sections: true
---

Imagine that a young designer gets hired by Uber. The company has
decided that their smartphone logo is terrible, and it needs to be
replaced. And rather than using a design agency, they think they can do
a better job in house. So they get a designer. And the new employee is,
in a sense, really good. They aren't really good at designing logos; in
fact they don't make any progress on the logo at all. But they are
really good at researching the history of transportation regulation, and
writing about this history in a crisp and timely manner. After a while,
they spend all their time on this historical research and writing, and
the new logo languishes.

<aside>
Published in _Academic Freedom_, edited by Jennifer Lackey, Oxford 102-115.

Picture by [MCAD Library](https://www.flickr.com/photos/69184488@N06) via [Creative Commons](https://search.creativecommons.org/photos/ac3b8ca0-01b9-46e7-8f9e-63dcdfe39007).
</aside>

I haven't worked for Uber, or any company like much like them, so I
can't say for sure what would happen. But my impression is that the new
employee would find themselves fired rather promptly. It wouldn't matter
how good their work was. In fact, I stipulated that it was good. And it
wouldn't matter how important that work was to the overall mission of
the company. I don't know Uber's inner workings, but from the outside I
suspect that anything that can help them deal with regulatory challenges
is considerably more important to their long-term profitability than the
look of their smartphone icon. None of this matters. The employee was
hired to do a job, they were conspicuously not doing it, and in many
businesses, that will mean you get fired.

Academia is, in crucial respects, not like that. Indeed, it is a key
aspect of academic freedom that researchers get a rather large degree of
freedom in choosing what they want to work on. A department may conduct
a search in a very specialised area, and hire someone on the strength of
their work in just that area, but if that person conducts research in a
somewhat different area when they arrive at the job, there is little the
department can do about it. And, some say, this is how things should be.
Anything otherwise, they say, would be an unacceptable restriction on
academic freedom. Here, for instance, is how Cary Nelson puts the point,

> Academic freedom gives both students and faculty the right to study
> and do research on the topics they choose and to draw what conclusions
> they find consistent with their research, though it does not prevent
> others from judging whether their work is valuable and their
> conclusions sound. [@Nelson2010]

The idea that academics are not constrained in their research topics has
some history. Here is Alexander Bickel, describing an ideal university.

> In universities, professionals of many disciplines can follow lines of
> inquiry determined by themselves, individually and collectively, and
> dictated by no one else, on grounds either ideological or practical.
>  [@Bickel1975 127]

And we see something similar in some university regulations. Here, for
example, is what the University of Chicago has to say about research
topics.

> The basic policies of The University of Chicago include complete
> freedom of research and the unrestricted dissemination of
> information.[^1]

There is a principle that seems to be running through these quotes, and
that I mean to focus on here. I'll call it FRA.

Freedom of Research Area (FRA)

:   If part of an academic's job involves doing research, then the
    academic themselves gets to choose which areas they shall perform
    that research in. And provided solely that the quality of the work
    is sufficiently high, this research in their self-chosen area shall
    count as adequately discharging their duties to their academic
    employer, at least as they pertain to research.

I think FRA is false, or at least that it should be false. That is, I
think academics should not have complete free choice of what they
research on. I'm not really sure how many people think FRA is true,
though I probably some people think something like it is true. Perhaps
more importantly, I think the appropriate qualifications that one needs
to add to FRA to make it true are neither obvious, nor reflected in
practice. And that's why I think it's worth discussing.

In particular, while FRA does not seem to me to be reflected in the
regular practice of academic life, a related principle I'll call FRAD
is. That is, I think FRAD is both widely believed, and many people act
as if it is true.

Freedom of Research Area within Department (FRAD)

:   If part of an academic's job involves doing research, then the
    academic themselves gets to choose which areas they shall perform
    that research in, provided it is within the disciplinary boundaries
    of their home department. And provided solely that the quality of
    the work is sufficiently high, and that they work within these
    disciplinary boundaries, this research in their self-chosen area
    shall count as adequately discharging their duties to their academic
    employer, at least as they pertain to research.

FRAD, I'll argue, is also false. Something close to FRAD, however, is
true. Academics should have 'elbow room' in their research; they should
be able to move from one research project to nearby projects. And if
they make such a move, they should count as having fulfilled their
research responsibilities provided their research is of a high enough
quality. FRAD is similar to the elbow room thesis, but not quite the
same as it. And the differences matter in some important cases.

In focussing on FRA and FRAD, I'm setting to one side most of the
questions usually thought central to debates about academic freedom.
(Though I trust these questions will get plenty of discussion in the
rest of this volume.) The focus here is on which questions academics
ask, not on what answers they give. Questions about how free academics
should be in answering questions (E.g., Is it ok to defend Pol Pot? Is
it ok to use seances to motivate historical interpretations?) are left
for others to address. And I'm exclusively focussing on what academics
do in the conduct of their work. Questions about whether they should be
subject to professional sanction for research activities outside work,
and, assuming they are immune from such sanction, whether this immunity
ought be related to their status as academics or simply to their status
as employees are also being set aside.

So we're focussed on what questions academics ask in the course of their
work as academics. There is one more distinction to make to really focus
the discussion. Academics have, to greater or lesser extents, both the
freedom to tackle different research topics, and the responsibility to
tackle certain topics. I'm interested in the responsibility side. What
kind of research counts as suitably discharging one's professional
responsibility to research? Put more bluntly, the focus here is not on
what research questions an academic may ask, but on what questions they
must ask.

The American academy has a rather odd structure when in comes to
enforcing this responsibility. Junior academics get reviewed after
roughly six years, and if their performance is satisfactory, they are
awarded tenure. If not, they are fired. Just what counts for tenure
varies a lot between institutions, but at research institutions, whether
one has adequately discharged one's research responsibilities is a huge
part of the equation.

It's not completely true that there is no other point in the American
academic's career where there will be an inquiry into how well they are
discharging their research responsibilities. But at no other point are
the stakes nearly as high. For instance, many departments have a small
pot of money to distribute in the form of annual raises each year, and
often enough research performance is a factor in that distribution. But
the sums involved, especially in cash-strapped times, are tiny. Since it
is very rare for one's nominal salary to fall in this process, and
inflation is so low, the worst that happens if one completely fails to
discharge all research responsibilities is that one's salary falls by a
percent or so per year. That can add up over time, but compared to being
fired, it's a minor penalty.

So I'm going to focus mostly on that tenure decision here. That isn't
because I have any sympathy for the current structure, with the stakes
being so high here and so low elsewhere. But it's what we have to work
with, so it's what is relevant here and now.[^2]

So imagine the following case. A young scholar gets hired in a US
university[^3] on a tenure-track line. Six years later, they are up for
tenure review. And in the interim they have done high quality work, with
the quality and quantity of the work being sufficient for promotion to
tenure. But the work is in a different area to the work they did before
being hired, and this work is not at all what the department had in mind
when they were hired. Assuming their promotion file is adequate in other
respects (especially concerning teaching and service), should they be
promoted to tenure? Or, perhaps more precisely, what further details of
the case matter to whether they should be promoted to tenure? Should it
matter, for instance, whether the work was inside or outside the
disciplinary purview of the department?

I'm assuming here that principles of academic freedom apply at all to
pre-tenured faculty. This doesn't seem too controversial, though it is
striking how some universities talk about tenure and academic freedom.
Here, for instance, is a passage from the University of Michigan's
Tenure Guidelines:

> The University safeguards academic freedom through its policy that no
> person who has been awarded tenure by the Regents or who has been
> employed by the University for a total of ten years at the rank of a
> full-time instructor or higher may, thereafter, be dismissed, demoted
> or recommended for terminal appointment without adequate cause and an
> opportunity for a review...  [@MichTenureA]

It isn't hard to read that as saying that it is through tenure that
academic freedom is protected, and conclude from that that faculty
without tenure don't have academic freedom. But I'm assuming that
conclusion is false; academic freedom does extend to untenured faculty.
And the question is what it covers.

The particular puzzle case I'm interested in is not unique to
philosophy, but philosophy is considerably more prone to it than other
fields. In many fields, a central part of the tenure file consists of
the book that results from the dissertation. In such cases, there is
little danger that the tenure file will look radically different from
the research profile that was submitted in the candidate's original job
application. In many other fields, research is closely connected to
getting and spending grant money. And the mechanics of grants make it
hard for someone's research to take a sharp change of direction at a
very early stage of their career. This is not to say the case I'm
interested in cannot arise in such disciplines. But it is much more
likely to arise in disciplines that are neither grant-based nor
book-based. There are few such disciplines in existence right now, but
philosophy, at least in the US, is one. Philosophy is also the
discipline I know the most about and, to be honest, care the most about,
so it doesn't bother me that I'm writing about a problem that is more
common here than elsewhere.

I'm also going to write exclusively about fictional cases. I looked into
using some real life cases to make the discussion more vivid. But they
ended up being more of a distraction than a helpful illustration. In
particular, it was hard to find a case where a candidate for tenure was
uncontroversially doing high quality work, but there were concerns about
the area it was in. Rather than re-litigating the tenure files of these
human beings, I think it most appropriate to focus here on the abstract
case.[^4]

To be sure, it is hard to precisely imagine a case just like the one I
am describing. Doing high level research in any field is hard. If there
is no sign of one having worked on something before being hired, the
probability that one will be able to acquire sufficient knowledge and
skills to do top quality research in that field is not high. And perhaps
it will even be hard to get unbiased reports on the quality of the work,
if the candidate did not get into the field through the usual channels.
But it's not so unrealistic as to be unimaginable.

I hope everyone would agree that doing extra work, well away from what
one was hired to do, is not a bad thing. It shouldn't count against the
candidate for tenure. Indeed, it is good to show some ability to stretch
out. When I say FRA and FRAD are false, I very much do not mean that one
is obliged to not do any other kind of research.[^5] The more research
the better! But first things first.

So why do I think FRA is false? And why do I think it would be
reasonable for universities to insist that their candidates for tenure
do some research on what they were hired to do.[^6] Well, let's start by
looking at an extreme case that might be thought to motivate something
like FRA. The following would be unreasonable behaviour on the part of a
hiring department. A candidate is hired on the basis of an excellent
dissertation on peer disagreement, which has led to two publications in
good journals, and there are two more papers under review from the
dissertation. The hiring department expects her to keep doing just this
kind of work.

But soon after she arrives at her new job, she surveys the most recent
work on peer disagreement and decides the debate is dead. There is, she
thinks, nothing more to say about this debate. It is an ex-debate, it
has ceased to be, it is no more, it has shuffled off this mortal coil
and is now pushing up the roofs of the libraries.[^7] So rather than
scream into the void, she decides to take what she has learned in
debates about disagreement and apply them to more vibrant debates about
testimony, and about judgment aggregation. And between getting hired and
coming up for tenure, she writes a series of high quality, widely cited,
papers on these topics in respected journals.

But then the hiring department gets upset at time for tenure review. We
hired you to work on peer disagreement, they say, and what have we here?
Nothing at all on peer disagreement, but all this stuff on these
distinct, though admittedly related, fields. That's not enough, we say,
for promotion to tenure.

This is poor behaviour on the part of the hiring department, and so
unreasonable that I find anything like this happening in a real
department almost inconceivable. (Though some departments do have an
impressively dogged commitment to unreasonableness, so perhaps I should
be careful here about the link between conceivability and possibility.)
But we can say more than just why it is unreasonable. There is a good
story about what makes it unreasonable.

Academic debates die. Everything that needs to be said is said, and it's
time to start talking about something new. When that happens, it is
wrong to keep plowing these barren fields. And the people best
positioned to spot the death of a debate are experts, with dedicated
knowledge. Outsiders may suspect that if nothing new is happening, the
participants are just tired following a prolonged squawk. Or, perhaps
more likely, outsiders will confuse mere squawking for actual progress.
The people best positioned to determine whether it is worth investing
more resources in a debate are participants to it. If our imagined
candidate has decided that the debate is dead, then it will usually be
reasonable to defer to her expert judgment. I'm assuming here that when
it comes to particular areas of debate, an assistant professor will be
an expert, even compared to her senior colleagues. She will know, and
they won't know, the details of what has been happening in the very
recent literature, and how much those details matter. Sometimes that
won't be true; her colleagues will be experts. But it will be usually
true, and so it is safe to assume it is true when considering
hypothetical cases for the purposes of policy development.

One other relevant fact about academic debates is that they are not
isolated. An expert on one debate won't automatically become an expert
on all related questions, but she won't be a novice either. In the peer
disagreement example, it is very natural to think that our expert will
know a lot about testimony and about judgment aggregation. Those debates
are both highly relevant to disagreement. So it is reasonable to expect
that if our candidate slid into those debates, she would produce
excellent work. And, recall, that is exactly what happened in the
example.

Putting these two thoughts together, we get the following conclusions.
Allowing people to drift between nearby areas of research will not, on
the whole, reduce the quality of their research. And allowing the people
who are experts in a particular debate to choose when to move between
nearby fields, we can leverage their knowledge of those fields to ensure
that their work remains relevant to lively debates.

These considerations support a freedom to drift, to move from one area
of research to adjacent areas without needing approval from a central
authority. And that's already a kind of academic freedom. The motivation
here has a family resemblance to Hayek's argument that a virtue of
markets is that they provide a way for the system to leverage the
expertise that market participants typically have, at least about areas
immediately relevant to them  [@Hayek1945]. And this Hayekian flavour to
the argument shouldn't be surprising. The alternative to a model where
academics have some freedom to choose the direction of their research is
one where a central planner chooses everyone's research topic for them.
And arguing against the success of such central planning models was a
central concern of Hayek's throughout his career.

So academics, even junior ones, should have elbow room (to borrow a
metaphor from Daniel Dennett). But it's a long way from this to
endorsing FRA. Indeed, the considerations that supported a freedom to
drift could not possibly support FRA. For one thing, the fact that one
was good enough to be hired in one particular sub-field does not
indicate that one will have particularly expert judgment on whether it
is a good use of university resources to have (more) research conducted
on a particular field distant from one's own. And for another thing, the
fact that one was hired in one field is little to no evidence that one
would be the right person to conduct that research, even if it were in
the university's interests. So if there is a wide ranging freedom to
research on whatever takes one's fancy, it will need radically different
justification to this.

It is hard to see what that justification could possibly be. There are
people who are given awards that are meant to support any kind of
research that they find interesting. The MacArthur Fellows Program, the
so-called 'genius grant', is like this. And it seems suitable for people
who have made spectacular contributions, and will likely continue to do
so. It seems particularly suitable for people who have already shown an
ability to create great works that require leaping between seemingly
distant fields. If, for example, you can use hip-hop to turn the story
of the most elitist of the founding fathers into a popular phenomenon,
then someone should probably give you untied funding to just see what
happens next.

But a junior professorship is not a MacArthur Fellowship. Indeed, it is
dangerous to think that it is, or that it should be. It encourages the
idea that universities should be looking to hire geniuses, rather than
hiring people who have put in the hard work to get to where they are in
their field, and are likely to keep getting further results by a
continued application of just that kind of hard work. At least some of
the time, perhaps most of the time, the question of just how smart the
candidate is should be considerably less relevant to a job search than
the question of what they have achieved, and what those achievements
signal about their likely future research contributions.[^8] Yet if
everyone who was hired was been given a free rein to work on anything
whatsoever, if every hire was the equivalent to bestowing a MacArthur
Fellowship, then whether the candidate was some kind of genius would be
a central, perhaps sole, criteria.

If we were going to say any academic should work on whatever they like,
or even whatever they like in their department's research purview, we
need to do one of two things:

1.  Show how this freedom is consistent with the idea that departments
    can, in hiring, take area of research into account; or

2.  Argue that the very widespread practice of taking area of research
    into account in hiring is indefensible.

I actually have some sympathy for option 2 here, but it would be an
incredibly radical step.[^9] So let's investigate the prospects for
option 1. I think they are rather dim.

The motivation for hiring by research field seems straightforward.
Departments have (allegedly) an interest in having researchers working
on diverse fields. And hiring people who have worked in diverse fields
is one way to meet that interest. But given FRA, or even FRAD, there is
a big gap in this motivation. All that we can know by looking at a job
application file is what a person has worked on. The department,
presumably, has an interest in there being diversity in what its members
will work on. And we need a bridge between past work and future work
here.

One way of bridging this gap would be to insist that the newly hired
academic work continue to do (some) research on (roughly) the areas they
were hired to work on. I think that's the right way to bridge the gap,
but it is inconsistent with FRA and FRAD.

Another way would be to take past research interests as noisy indicators
of future research interests. So if you want to hire in philosophy of
biology, you might hire someone who has worked in philosophy of biology
to increase the probability that that's what they'll work in. The
problem with this reasoning is that hiring the person who is most likely
to do the best work in the area you want to hire in will lead to some
bad choices in realistic scenarios. Imagine you want to hire in
philosophy of biology, and you have three candidates.

-   A is the best philosopher of the bunch, but has at best a passing
    interest in philosophy of biology.

-   B is the best philosopher of biology, but also has a very strong
    interest (including a book manuscript in progress) on a completely
    different field.

-   C is nearly as good as B at philosophy of biology, and has no other
    philosophical interests.

If you want to maximise the expected value of research your department
does on philosophy of biology, and FRA or FRAD are in place, the best
thing to do hire C. After all, there is a non-trivial chance that B will
just work on their book manuscript and related papers, and indeed use it
to get tenure. If you want to maximise the expected value of research
your department does in philosophy, the best thing to do is to hire A.
They are the best philosopher. What's hard to see is the motivation for
making what intuitively is the right choice here, hiring B. The
solution, I think, is to ditch FRAD, and hire B with the explicit
requirement that they do a certain amount of work in philosophy of
biology.

Let's say that FRA is false then, and conclude with a more focussed look
at FRAD as it applies to tenure cases. This is a somewhat more practical
matter, since FRAD is more like the rule that is applied in actual
tenure cases. Indeed, here is what the handbook at the University of
Michigan (my employer) says about tenure review,

> After the appropriate probationary period (see section 6.C "Tenure
> Probationary Period"), tenure may be granted to those instructional
> faculty members whose professional accomplishments indicate that they
> will continue to serve with distinction in their appointed roles.
> Tenure is awarded to those who demonstrate excellent teaching,
> outstanding research and scholarship, and substantial additional
> service, **each of which must be relevant to the goals and needs of
> the University, college and department**. The award of tenure is based
> on the achievement of distinction in an area of learning and the
> prediction of continued eminence throughout the individual's
> professional career  [@MichTenureB emphasis added]

As far as I can tell, in practice the bolded clause is interpreted in
line with something like FRAD. The wording is ambiguous; it could just
as easily be read as supporting the elbow room standard that I prefer.
But I don't believe that's how things work in practice.

We have two questions to answer then. First, how similar are FRAD and
the elbow room standard? And second, in cases where they differ, which
provides a better model for building a university. I think they are not
particularly similar, and the elbow room standard is much better.

There is, of course, a certain similarity between the two standards.
FRAD says work on whatever you like, provided it is in the same
discipline as the work that got you hired. The elbow room standard says
work on whatever you like, provided it is sufficiently similar (along
some salient dimension) to the work that got you hired. And being in the
same department is a dimension of similarity. But it isn't, ultimately,
a particularly important one. Making it of central importance, as FRAD
does, leads to numerous avoidable errors.

For one thing, FRAD gives some academics more freedom to switch fields
than the elbow room standard could possibly justify. Philosophy is a
very broad field. Just because one is doing really excellent work in one
field is very little evidence that one will be able to do excellent work
in another field. Thinking that it is evidence is to just relapse into a
restricted version of the myth, or cult, of genius. So at least in some
cases, the elbow room standard will be more restrictive than FRAD. But
in other cases it will be less restrictive, and those are perhaps more
important in practice.

Disciplines have boundaries. Those boundaries are vague, but they are
there. Some people work on topics that are very near to a boundary, and
some work on topics that are far from a boundary. FRAD impacts these two
groups in very different ways, and the difference is unfair. Someone
whose work is near a boundary can't just drift into any nearby field,
since the nearby fields may be outside the disciplinary bounds. To take
one clear example, a researcher hired for work on the semantics of
modals can easily drift into other areas of semantics, or onto modal
fallacies in argumentation, but not into work on the syntax of modals.
For whatever reason, we've decided the boundary between philosophy and
not-philosophy around here is very close to the the syntax-semantics
boundary. And this is a violation of the elbow room principle, since
this kind of move from the semantics to the syntax of a particular class
of expressions is just the kind of move to a closely related field that
the elbow room principle is designed to protect.

It won't help here to say that there should be overlapping areas of
research concern between departments. The crucial question is the
boundary between X and not-X, not the boundary between X and Y. If
someone is near the X/not-X boundary, they could have a tenure home in
X, and then drift into not-X. They deserve protection in their research,
and FRAD wouldn't provide it. It would perhaps help if literally every
possible area of research was such that there was some department it was
not just in, but in without being near the boundary. But a world with
academic departments organised that way feels very different to the one
we are in.

In won't help to say we should just make the boundaries larger. Unless
we abolish the boundaries altogether, the problem will persist. And
abolishing all the boundaries would create more problems than it solves.
The boundaries play useful roles right now. It is good that hiring and
tenure decisions for, say, a position in metaphysics are made by people
with a broad range of philosophical backgrounds, and not (in the first
instance) by an arbitrary collection of people from across the
university. The ideal here is not no boundaries, but porous
boundaries.[^10] Boundaries exist so that local experts, and people with
special local interests, get extra say on questions of local concern,
but they are porous so they get in the way of freedoms. Replacing FRAD
with the elbow room principle gets the balance right.

It also doesn't help that the boundaries are vague. In general, if
something is true no matter how a vague term is made precise, it is a
good bet that it is true.[^11] But we can say a bit more about why
vagueness doesn't matter in this particular case. The following
principle looks both true, and the best bet for why we might think vague
disciplinary boundaries make FRAD more palatable.

-   If someone's work is clearly within discipline X, then any related
    area they could reasonably drift into under the elbow room principle
    will not be clearly outside discipline X.

If everyone who is hired is clearly working within X, then FRAD might be
no more restrictive than the elbow room principle. After all, any
permissible drift will not take one clearly outside one's home
discipline.

The problem is that only hiring people whose work is clearly within the
hiring discipline is a terrible idea. Indeed, it is a worse idea than
FRAD. It ensures that one will only hire in safe, traditional areas of
research. And that's a plan for stagnation, not for doing the best
research. Sometimes we have to hire people on the frontiers, and
sometimes their work will drift clearly outside one's discipline. That's
just a cost of having a dynamic research program, and attempts to avoid
paying this cost will make things even worse.

There is one problem that vague disciplinary boundaries does help with.
Vague boundaries are easier to shift than precise boundaries. That's
because there was never any agreement on where they were in the first
place, so no agreement has to be overturned. And if enough people work
who were hired in X start working on an area that used to be outside X,
we should just start treating that area as inside X. But we don't have
to make this conceptual shift every time a good philosopher does good
work on a nearby topic. Some good work is in other fields, and that's
ok.

There are other odd features of FRAD. If applied consistently, it would
lead to treating some like cases in very unlike ways. There are several
fields that are set up as departments in some universities, and as
programs in other universities. For example, in America right now there
is a divide among universities about whether to set up things like
Women's Studies, Cognitive Science, and PPE as independent departments,
or as programs run collaboratively by a number of different departments.
There are administrative considerations on either side of this choice,
and these considerations vary somewhat between different universities.
If they are set up as programs, then anyone hired in to them will have a
tenure home in one of the constituent departments. And given FRAD, that
will put certain limitations on their research. Those limitations will
be very different to what they would face if the unit were its own
department. But it seems very wrong to think the administrative decision
to set up a unit as a department or a program impact the freedoms of
people hired to work in those unites. Where FRAD applies, however, this
difference is dramatic. Someone hired in a philosophy department to
support a Cognitive Science program could move to work on philosophy of
religion, but not experimental developmental psychology. Someone hired
by a Cognitive Science department would have the opposite set of
freedoms. I'm not sure what is optimal here, but it is very odd that an
administrative decision should impact researchers in this way.

But the biggest problem with FRAD is that it makes the disciplinary
boundaries too important. Young researchers shouldn't have to second
guess whether a particular development of their research is inside or
outside a vague, shifting, boundary. The solution isn't to abolish these
boundaries, any more than rights of free movement across an area is a
reason to abolish all political boundaries within that area.[^12]
Rather, the solution is to downplay them. If exercising their elbow room
rights takes an academic outside the purview of their home department,
that's just a cost of having a dynamic research program.

And it is really the effect on these younger scholars, trying to
pre-judge what their reviewers at tenure time will think, that I'm most
interested in here. As I noted above, I don't know of any clear cases
where someone was turned down for tenure because their research was in
the wrong area. But I know many cases of academics who have put off more
speculative research projects until after their tenure review. And the
reason, typically, has been that they are nervous that the outputs of
the new project would be discounted, merely in virtue of their subject
matter, at the time of tenure review. This feels like an undesirable
feature of the status quo, and one that could be remedied by rethinking
why we care about what an individual academic works on.

So while I disagree with the strongest statements of academic freedom, I
think the position I'm endorsing allows greater freedom in practice than
existing practices like FRAD. There are, I would guess, many more people
who are worried that their research is drifting away from what their
colleagues will regard as *really* part of the discipline than there are
people who would like the freedom to jump to an area they have no
training, expertise or background in. Defending the elbow room
principle, or freedom to drift, will take care of those concerns. And
the principle is much easier to defend in theory than FRA or FRAD. So
it, I think, is the core important principle concerning academics'
rights to direct their own research.

#### Conclusion

I've focussed here exclusively on research, and not at all on teaching.
But in many ways what I'm saying here could be summarised as the view
that the norms concerning topic choice are fairly similar in research
and in teaching. If I'm given a course on history of political
philosophy to teach, then I better teach history of political
philosophy, and not, say, formal logic, or Australian geography, or
baseball statistics.[^13] It isn't in any way a violation of academic
freedom if I'm required to teach the subject I signed up to teach.

But in practice, and in theory, there is a lot of freedom within the
boundaries of a course. If I want my history of political philosophy
course to include thinkers who are not commonly central to the story
Anglophone political philosophy tells about itself, I should (and
typically would) be free to include them. If I think the most relevant
secondary literature is by people in departments other than philosophy
(e.g., history, political science, women's studies, etc) then I should
be able to base my syllabus around such writers. Now I personally
haven't taught history of political philosophy since I was a
post-doctoral fellow who was too nervous to consider any such plan. But
it's exactly the kind of thing academic freedom should protect - and I
suspect in most cases it is what academic freedom would protect.

The same I think should go for research. If one is hired to research
history of political philosophy, then it is reasonable for the
university to require that one do just that. It isn't reasonable to
require one do only that; people should be allowed to explore what they
want. But it is reasonable to require some work on what one was hired to
do. Yet if doing that takes one outside the bounds of what is
(hereabouts) considered philosophy, that should be fine too. Do what
you're hired to do is a good principle; FRAD is not.

The picture of academia I'm trying to promote is one where more units
are free to operate the way that Paul Romer describes the Marron
Institute of Urban Management at NYU as operating.

> [I]nstead of giving its faculty members the usual freedom to study
> anything that that seems interesting, the institute lets the problems
> that cities face set its research agenda. Because these choices are
> not the usual ones on campus, many people complained.  [@Romer2016]

If universities want to give people complete freedom to set their own
research agenda, I'm not going to complain about that (much). What I
want to deny is that setting up things like the Marron Institute is a
violation of academic freedom. There is a lot to be gained by hiring
people for relatively specific research tasks, and it isn't a violation
of their freedom to hire them in this way. And that's especially true if
the constraints on their research agenda are set just by the questions
that their research team is focussed on, and not by the disciplinary
homes that house the thinkers they engage with.

[^1]: Retrieved from
    <https://provost.uchicago.edu/handbook/research/research-policies>.
    Both this quote and the Bickel quote are cited by Richard A.
    @Schweder2015.

[^2]: Just to be clear, I'm not denying that the arguments given below
    could apply to tenured academics just as easily as non-tenured ones.
    But doing so would be a very radical break from current practice,
    and motivating such a radical break would need much more careful
    discussion than I have space to do here.

[^3]: I will use the term 'university' here for any post-secondary
    educational institution that hires professors with an expectation
    they will produce some research. Many of these institutions have
    'college' rather than 'university' in their name, but I'm calling
    them all universities.

[^4]: As I'll return to below, the main way the issues I'm discussing
    impact everyday academic life is that expectations of how tenure
    reviews will be conducted affect how pre-tenured academics structure
    their research profiles. As any game theorist knows, the nature of
    non-equilibrium outcomes can be profoundly important to the actual
    world, even if they are never reached.

[^5]: I wasn't hired to write articles like this one, but there isn't, I
    hope, anything wrong with my writing it.

[^6]: There is an important caveat here. It would be completely
    unreasonable for a university to decide, just as a candidate comes
    up for tenure, that they really wanted the candidate to have been
    doing different research for the past six years. The question is
    what behaviour on the part of universities would be reasonable if it
    were clearly communicated well in advance.

[^7]: Full disclosure: I have a book manuscript under review with a long
    discussion of peer disagreement.

[^8]: Sarah-Jane Leslie's work (with various colleagues) has shown that
    there is a strong correlation between how strongly people think that
    brilliance is required for producing good work in a field, and the
    gender distribution of faculty in the field
     [@LeslieScience2015; @LeslieFrontiers2015; @LesliePLOS2016].
    Thinking that whoever is hired can work on anything, and it will
    probably be good if the work they originally did was good, seems
    similar to me to taking raw talent to be the primary requisite for
    successful work.

    The primary argument of this paper has been the requiring academics
    to do at least a certain amount of work in a particular area is not
    a violation of academic freedom. It is no violation of academic
    freedom to set up something like NYU's Marron Institute (discussed
    further below). The considerations of this paragraph suggest
    something stronger, that it is positively bad to not require (most)
    academics to do work in a particular area, because to not do this
    encourages an invidious cult of genius. I'm not endorsing this
    stronger claim, but these considerations do look like the germ of an
    argument for it.

[^9]: As of November 16, 2016, there were 209 jobs advertised on
    PhilJobs.org, and by my count only 36 did not put some restrictions
    or desiderata on the research area of the hired candidate.

[^10]: Academia is hardly the only place where this is the ideal.

[^11]: This principle traces back at least to @Keynes1936 [Ch. 6].

[^12]: By analogy, it's a good thing that Ann Arbor has a city council,
    and it's a good thing that there are no barriers to moving in or out
    of Ann Arbor.

[^13]: Compare the discussion of academic freedom and the requirement to
    teach the topic of the class in @Cole2015. The example of teaching
    Australian geography in a class that is not on that is taken from
    one of their survey respondents.
