---
title: "Prankster's Ethics"
description: |
  We raise an objection to a very weak form of consequentialism. A world with only moral saints would be improved by adding a few mostly harmless pranksters. This result is not dependent on a particular way of thinking about value; it is resilient across a lot of measures of the value of worlds. But these pranksters would be doing things that are morally wrong. So we cannot identify rightness with making the world a better place.
date: November 1 2004
author:
  - name: Andy Egan
    url: https://www.andyegan.net
    affiliation: Rutgers University
    affiliation_url: https://philosophy.rutgers.edu/
  - name: Brian Weatherson 
    url: http://brian.weatherson.org
    affiliation: University of Michigan
    affiliation_url: https://umich.edu
    orcid_id: 0000-0002-0830-141X
doi: "10.1111/j.1520-8583.2004.00020.x"
categories:
  - ethics
citation_url: https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1520-8583.2004.00020.x
citation: false
journal: 
  title: "Philosophical Perspectives"
volume: 18
issue: 1
bibliography: ../../../articles/Rbib.bib
self-contained: false
preview: pie.jpg
output:
  distill::distill_article:
    toc: true
    toc_depth: 3
    number_sections: true
---

### A Quick Argument for Boorishness

Diversity is a good thing. Some of its value is instrumental. Having
people around with diverse beliefs, or customs, or tastes, can expand
our horizons and potentially raise to salience some potential true
beliefs, useful customs or apt tastes. Even diversity of error can be
useful. Seeing other people fall away from the true and the useful in
distinctive ways can immunise us against similar errors. And there are a
variety of pleasant interactions, not least philosophical exchange, that
wouldn't be possible unless some kinds of diversity existed. Diversity
may also have intrinsic value. It may be that a society with diverse
views, customs and tastes is simply thereby a better society. But we
will mostly focus on diversity's instrumental value here.

<aside>
Published in _Philosophical Perspectives_ 18: 45-52.
</aside>

We think that what is true of these common types of diversity is also
true of moral diversity. By moral diversity we mean not only diversity
of moral views, though that is no doubt valuable, but diversity of moral
behaviour. In a morally diverse society, at least some people will not
conform as tightly to moral norms as others. In short, there will be
some wrongdoers. To be sure, moral diversity has some costs, and too
much of it is undoubtedly a bad thing. Having rapists and murderers adds
to moral diversity (assuming, as we do, that most people are basically
moral) but not in a way that is particularly valuable. Still, smaller
amounts of moral diversity may be valuable, all things considered. It
seems particularly clear that moral diversity within a subgroup has
value, but sometimes society as a whole is better off for being morally
diverse. Let us consider some examples.

Many violations of etiquette are not moral transgressions. Eating
asparagus spears with one's fork is not sinful, just poor form. But more
extreme violations may be sinful. Hurtful use of racial epithets, for
example, is clearly immoral as well as a breach of etiquette. Even use
of language that causes not hurt, but strong discomfort, may be morally
wrong. Someone who uses an offensive term in polite company, say at a
dinner party or in a professional philosophical forum, may be doing the
wrong thing. But having the wrongdoer around may have valuable
consequences. For example, they generate stories that can be told, to
great amusement, at subsequent dinner parties. They also prompt us to
reconsider the basis for the standards we ourselves adopt in such
matters. The reconsideration may cause us to abandon useless practices,
and it may reinforce useful practices. These benefits seem to outweigh
the disutility of the discomfort felt by those in attendance when the
fateful word drops from the speaker's lips. These side benefits do not
make the original action morally permissible. Indeed, it is precisely
because the action is not morally permissible that the benefits accrue.

While we think that case is one of valuable moral diversity, some may
question the *immorality* of the act in question. So let us try a more
clearly immoral case: the mostly harmless prankster. Sam is a
pie-thrower. Sam doesn't just throw pies at the rich and infamous. No,
Sam's pies land on common folk like you and I, often for no reason
beyond Sam's amusement. Causing gratuitous harm for one's own amusement
is immoral. And a pie in the face, while better than a poke in the eye
with a burnt stick, is harmful. But it may, in some circumstances, have
side benefits. There will be the (guilty) pleasure occasioned in the
unharmed bystanders, though it would be wrong to put too much weight on
that. Other more significant benefits may accrue if Sam's society is
otherwise saintly. Sam's existence will prompt people to take some
simple, and worthwhile, precautions against perpetrators of such
attacks. Even if society currently contains no malfeasants, such
precautions will be useful against future wrongdoers. This benefit will
increase if Sam graduates from pie-throwing to more varied pranks. (As
may the entertainment value of Sam's pranks.) Many computer hackers
perform just this function in the present world. Malicious hackers on
the whole cause more harm than good. But other hackers, who hack without
gratuitously harming, provide a protective benefit by informing us of
our weaknesses. These are the pie-throwers of the virtual world. Sam's
actions have other benefits. If Sam's pranks are harmless enough, some
will mistakenly think that they are morally acceptable, and we can have
enjoyable, valuable, philosophical discussions with them. (Note that
this benefit also increases if Sam varies the pranks.) The upshot is
that Sam's pranks can make the world a better place, all things
considered, despite being immoral. Indeed, in some ways they make the
world a better place *because* they are immoral.

The philosophical point, or points, here may be familiar. One point
certainly *is* familiar: we have here an example of a Moorean organic
unity. The goodness of the whole is no simple function of the goodness
of the parts. It might be thought that this follows simply from the
familiar counterexamples to utilitarianism, and that our examples have
no more philosophical interest than those old counterexamples. Both of
these thoughts would be mistaken.

The familiar counterexamples we have in mind include, for example, the
case of the doctor who kills a healthy patient to harvest her organs, or
the judge who executes an innocent man to prevent a riot. Importantly,
those examples do not refute consequentialism in general, but only a
version of consequentialism that adopts a particular kind of reductive
analysis of the good. The details of the analysis won't matter here, but
it may be an analysis of goodness in terms on happiness, or preference
satisfaction. If we give up the reductive analysis of goodness, we can
say that the doctor and the judge do not make for a better society. A
familiar heuristic supports that claim. (We take no stand here on
whether this heuristic can be turned into an analysis.) Behind the
Rawlsian veil of ignorance, we would prefer that there not be such
doctors or judges in society. We think that most of us would agree, even
in full appreciation of the possibility that we will be saved by the
doctor, or possibly the judge. On the other hand, we think we'd prefer a
society with the occasional boorish dinner guest, or a rare pie-thrower,
to a society of moral saints. We say this in full appreciation of the
possibility that we may get a pie in the face for our troubles. Possibly
if we *knew* we would be the pie-throwee we would change our minds, but
fortunately pies cannot penetrate the veil of ignorance.

Although it isn't much discussed in the literature, we think this form
of consequentialism is interesting for several reasons beyond its
capacity to avoid counterexamples. For one thing, it is not easy to say
whether this counts as an agent-neutral ethical theory. On the one hand,
we can say what everyone should do in neutral terms: for each person it
is better if they do things that create a better world from the
perspective of those behind the veil of ignorance. On the other hand
this rule leads to obligations on agents that do not seem at all
neutral. From behind the veil of ignorance we'd prefer that parents love
their children and hence privilege their interests, and that they love
them because they are their children not because this creates a better
world, so parents end up with a special obligation to their children.
Having this much (or more importantly this *little*) neutrality in a
moral theory sounds quite plausible to us, and although we won't develop
the point here there is possibly an attractive answer to the 'nearest
and dearest' objection to consequentialism [@Jackson1991]. More
generally, because we have preferences from behind the veil of ignorance
about *why* people act and not just about *how* they act -- we prefer
for instance that people visit sick friends in hospital because they are
friends not because of an abstract sense of duty -- this form of
consequentialism is not particularly vulnerable to objections that claim
consequentialists pay too little attention to motives.

So we think a consequentialist can avoid the standard objections to
utilitarianism by being less ambitious and not trying to provide a
reductive analysis of goodness. The most natural retreat is to behind
the veil of ignorance, but our examples can reach even there. This is
far from the only interesting consequence of the examples.

### The Good, the Right, and the Saintly

We think that the cases of the curser and the pie-thrower are examples
of situations in which (a) an agent ought not to $\varphi$, and (b) it's
best that the agent *does* $\varphi$. Our judgements about the cases are
not based on any theoretical analysis of the right and the good. They're
simply intuitions about cases---it just seems to us that the right thing
to say about the pie thrower is that she ought not to do what she does,
but that it's still best if she does it. To the extent that these
intuitions are puzzling or theoretically problematic (and we think that
they are at least a little bit puzzling, and at least potentially
problematic), it's open to us to reject one or the other intuition about
the cases, and either deny that the curser and the pie thrower ought not
to curse or throw pies, or deny that it's best that they *do* curse and
throw pies. This is an option, but we think it's not a very attractive
one. Suppose that instead we take the intuitions at face value, and
accept our judgements about the cases. What follows?

Our analysis of the examples is incompatible with two attractive views
about the connection between *goodness* (that is, the property of
things---in particular worlds---in virtue of which some of them stand in
the *better than* relation to others) and *rightness*, and between
goodness and good character:

1.  It's better if everyone does what's right.
2.  It's better if everyone has good character.[^1]

Now, neither of these will do as a philosophical thesis. But it's
probably not worth spending the time and effort on patching them up,
since even the patched-up versions will be false.

If the pie-thrower ought not to throw her pies, but it's nonetheless
best that she does, no patched-up version of (1) that captures the
intuition behind it can be right. Any patched-up version of (1) will
still be claiming that there's a very tight connection between what it
would be *right* for us to do (what we *ought* to do) and what it would
be *best* for us to do. Any plausible elaboration on (1) will include a
commitment to the thesis that, if we ought not to do something, then
it's best if we don't do it. But if our analyses of the cases of the
curser and the pie-thrower are right, then these are counterexamples.

What about (2)? Well, it's *not* better if the cursing dinner guest has
good character. What happens if we suppose that the curser *does* have
good character? One of two things: (i) He'll no longer curse at dinner
parties, and we'll lose the benefits that come from his cursing. This
would be bad. (ii) He'll still curse at dinner parties, but he'll be
cursing in a *studied* way. He'll be cursing because he's seen that
things will be better if *somebody* uses foul language in inappropriate
circumstances, and he's taken it upon himself to fill the unfilled
functional role. This would also be bad. This sort of *studied* bad
conduct doesn't have the same value as bad conduct that springs from bad
character. Here is some evidence for this: We value the curser's
breaching of societal norms, even though he ought not to do it. Were we
to *find out* that every expletive had been *studied*, produced either
to produce these important social goods, or to create a familiar bad-boy
image, we would *stop* valuing his breachings of the moral order. They
would, instead, become merely tiresome and annoying. Since we value
spontaneous cursings which are products of less-than-optimal character,
but we do *not* value studied cursings which are products of exemplary
character, it's very plausible to conclude (though admittedly not quite
mandatory) that the spontaneous curses are much more valuable than the
studied ones. We're inclined to say, in fact, that while having a few
*spontaneous* cursers around makes things better, having *studied*
cursers around makes things worse. Since you have to have
less-than-perfect character in order to be a spontaneous curser, it
follows that you can't get the benefits of having cursers around without
having some people with less-than-perfect character around. And since
it's better to have the cursers than not, it's better to have some
people with less-than-perfect character around than not. This will be
incompatible with almost any plausible way of cashing out (2).[^2]

### A Problem about Quantifier Scope?

But isn't there a sense in which (for example) the pie-thrower *ought*
to throw his pies? After all, if nobody was throwing pies, we might
think to ourselves, "gosh, it would be better if there were a few---not
many, but a few---pie throwers around". Then it would be natural to
conclude, "somebody ought to start throwing pies at strangers". And then
it would be natural to infer that at least the first person to start
throwing pies at strangers would be doing what they ought. It would be
natural, but it would be wrong. The plausible reading of "someone ought
to start throwing pies at strangers" is, "it ought to be that somebody
starts throwing pies at strangers", not, "there's somebody out there
such that they ought to start throwing pies at strangers". So we haven't
gotten anybody a moral license to throw pies yet. And in fact it's very
plausible that we ought to understand assertions that *it ought to be
that P* as claiming that it would be *better* if it were the case that
P; that is, as making claims about what would be *good*, not about what
would be *right*.

There's a puzzle about what to make of cases where we're inclined to say
that it ought to be that somebody $\varphi$s---that is, that somebody
ought to $\varphi$; but also that there's nobody such that *they* ought
to $\varphi$---in fact, that everybody is such that they ought *not* to
$\varphi$.[^3] Maybe the fact that our intuitions about the examples
give rise to these kinds of puzzling cases is evidence that one or the
other of our intuitions ought to be rejected. The move we suggested
above is that the reason this seems so puzzling is that we've been
punning on "ought". The "ought" in "somebody ought to start throwing
pies" doesn't have anything much to do with what moral obligations
anybody has---doesn't have anything much to do with what's *right*---but
has a great deal to do with what's *good*. And if that's the case, then
all we have is more evidence against the tight connection between the
right and the good: it would be better if somebody started throwing
pies, but everybody has a moral obligation not to. So it would be better
if somebody did what they oughtn't.

### Value, Desire and Advice

Although the "ought" in "somebody ought to throw pies" has little to do
with what's *right*, it might have a lot to do with what we find
desirable. And this will cause problems for some familiar meta-ethical
theories. Quite naturally, Jack does not desire to throw pies at
strangers for amusement in the actual world. Jack's a very civic minded
fellow in that respect. In fact, his concern for others goes deeper than
that. He'd be quite prepared to risk his body for the sake of his fellow
citizens. As it turns out, he's been a volunteer fire fighter for years
now. And Jack likes to think that if need be, he would be prepared, to
use an old fashioned phrase, to risk his soul for the community. He
hopes he would be morally depraved if what the society needed was
depravity. Jack agrees with the discussion of character in section 2, so
he hopes that when society needs a pie-thrower, he will step up with the
plate, and do so directly because he wants to throw pies at innocent
bystanders. Letting C stand for the circumstances described above, where
it would be good for there to be more wrongdoing, Jack's position can be
summarised by saying that he desires that in C he desires that *he*
throws pies at innocents.

Does this all mean Jack values his throwing pies at innocents in C? Not
necessarily. Does it mean that if we were all like Jack, and we are
subjectivists about what is right, it would be right to throw pies at
innocents in C? Definitely not. David @Lewis1989b equates what we value
with what we desire to desire.[^4] And he equates what is valuable with
what we value. The text is not transparent, but it seems Lewis wants
*valuable* to subsume both what we call the 'right' and the 'good'. And
this he cannot have. Assume that everyone in Jack's community desires to
(*de se*) desire that (s)he throw pies at innocents in C. That does not
make it right that pies are thrown at innocents. We take no stand here
on whether the flaw is in the equation of personal value with
second-order desire, or in the reduction of both rightness and goodness
to personal value, but there is a problem for Lewis's dispositional
theory of value.[^5]

This point generalises to cause difficulties for several dispositional
theories of value. For example, Michael @Smith1994 holds that right
actions are what our perfectly rational selves would advise us to do.
This assumes that when the good and the right come apart, our perfectly
rational selves would choose the right over the good. And it's far from
clear that Smith has the resources to argue for this assumption. Smith's
argument that our perfectly rational selves will advise us to do what is
right relies on his earlier argument that anyone who does not do what
she judges to be *right* is practically irrational, unlike presumably
our perfectly rational selves. And the main argument for that principle
is that it is the best explanation of why actually good people are
motivated to do what they judge to be right, even when they change their
judgements about what is right. But now we should be able to see that
there's an alternative explanation available. Actually good people might
be motivated to do what they judge to be *good* rather than *right*. We
have seen no reason to believe that the right and the good actually come
*radically* apart, so this is just as good an explanation of the
behaviour actual moral agents as Smith's explanation. So for all Smith
has argued, one might judge $\varphi$ing to be right, also judge it not
to be good, hence be not motivated to $\varphi$, and not be practically
irrational. Indeed, our perfectly rational self might be just like
this.[^6] Hence we cannot rely on our perfectly rational self to be a
barometer of what is right, as opposed to what is good.

[^1]: Proposition (2) is quite a natural position to hold if one is trying to
    capture the insights of virtue ethics in a consequentialist
    framework, as in @Driver2001 or @Hurka2001. But if we take 'better'
    in a more neutral way, so (2) does not mean that there are better
    consequences if everyone has good character, but simply that the
    world is a better place if this is so, even if this has few
    consequences, or even negative consequences, then it will be a
    position common to most virtue ethicists.

[^2]: Specifically, it will be incompatible with any *maximizing*
    version of (2). There are 'threshold' versions of (2) that don't
    fall afoul of this kind of problem because they don't claim it would
    be best for everyone to have *perfect* character, but only that it
    would be best for everyone to have *pretty good* character, or at
    least for nobody to have *really bad* character.

[^3]: It's actually the second part that makes it puzzling. Compare the
    familiar and unproblematic situation in which we ought to give you a
    horse, but there's no horse such that we ought to give you *that*
    one, and the more troubling situation in which we ought to give you
    a horse, but every horse is such that we ought *not* to give you
    that one.

[^4]: More precisely, with what we desire to desire in circumstances of
    appropriate imaginative acquaintance. We can suppose that Jack, and
    everyone else under discussion in this paragraph, is suitably
    imaginatively acquainted with the salient situations. Jack knows
    full well what it is like to get a pie in the face.

[^5]: Someone might think it obvious that Lewisian value can't be used
    in an analysis of both rightness and goodness, since it is *one*
    concept and we are analysing *two* concepts. But Lewisian value
    bifurcates in a way that one might think it is suitable for
    analysing both rightness and goodness. Since there are both *de
    dicto* and *de se* desires, one can easily draw out both *de dicto*
    and *de se* values. And it is *prima facie* plausible that the *de
    dicto* values correspond to what is good, and the *de se* values to
    what is right. Indeed, given a weak version of consequentialism
    where these two can be guaranteed to not directly conflict, this
    correspondence may well hold. But we think the pie-thrower threatens
    even those consequentialists. The net philosophical conclusion is
    that the pie-thrower is a problem for Lewis's meta-ethics, but only
    because (a) she is a problem for Lewis's consequentialism, and,
    surprisingly, (b) Lewis's meta-ethics depends on his
    consequentialism being at least roughly right.

[^6]: We have glossed over a technical point here that is irrelevant to
    the current discussion. What matters is not whether our perfectly
    rational selves are motivated to $\varphi$, it matters whether they
    desire that we $\varphi$, and hence whether they are motivated to
    advise us to $\varphi$. Keeping this point clear matters for all
    sorts of purposes, but not we think the present one.
