---
title: "Keynes, Uncertainty and Interest Rates"
description: |
  Uncertainty plays an important role in *The General Theory*, particularly in the theory of interest rates. Keynes did not provide a theory of uncertainty, but he did make some enlightening remarks about the direction he thought such a theory should take. I argue that some modern innovations in the theory of probability allow us to build a theory which captures these Keynesian insights. If this is the right theory, however, uncertainty cannot carry its weight in Keynes's arguments. This does not mean that the conclusions of these arguments are necessarily mistaken; in their best formulation they may succeed with merely an appeal to risk.
date: April 1 2001
author:
  - name: Brian Weatherson 
    url: http://brian.weatherson.org
    affiliation: University of Michigan
    affiliation_url: https://umich.edu
    orcid_id: 0000-0002-0830-141X
doi: "10.1093/cje/26.1.47"
categories:
  - epistemology
  - games and decisions
  - philosophy of economics
citation_url: https://doi.org/10.1093/cje/26.1.47
journal:
    title: "Cambridge Journal of Economics"
    publisher: "Oxford University Press"
volume: 26
number: 1
citation: false
bibliography: ../../../articles/Rbib.bib
self-contained: false
preview: cambridge.jpg
output:
  distill::distill_article:
    toc: true
    toc_depth: 3
    number_sections: true
---


@Keynes1936 clearly saw an important role for uncertainty in his
*General Theory*. However, few contemporaries agreed with him, and
subsequent 'Keynesians' generally obliterated the distinction between
risk and uncertainty. In part this was caused by Keynes's informal
presentation of his views on uncertainty in *The General Theory*. This
paper has two aims. The first is to sketch a formal theory of
uncertainty which captures Keynes's insights about the risk/uncertainty
distinction. I argue that the theory of imprecise probabilities
developed in recent years best captures Keynes's intuitions about
uncertainty. In particular this theory provides a formal distinction
between risk and uncertainty, and allows for an analysis of Keynes's
'weight' of arguments. However, the second aim is to show that if this
is right then Keynes was wrong to draw the economic consequences of
uncertainty that he did. In broad terms, I argue that uncertainty is
economically impotent. It only has effects in conjunction with some
other feature of models or the world, such as missing markets or agent
irrationality. But these features plus the existence of risk are
sufficient to get the conclusions Keynes wants. These conclusions of
Keynes might be right, but if so they can be justified without reference
to Keynesian uncertainty. At the end of the day, uncertainty is not as
economically interesting as it appears.

<aside>
Published in *Cambridge Journal of Economics* 26: 47-62.

Picture by [Extra Medium](https://www.flickr.com/photos/70121902@N00) via [Creative Commons](https://search.creativecommons.org/photos/8370641b-400d-43a1-adc6-8bb80fcb24f4).
</aside>

### Imprecise Probabilities

In the classical, or Bayesian[^1], model of rationality all rational
agents have precise degrees of belief, or credences, in each
proposition. There is a probability function $Bel$ such that for any
proposition $A$, there is a number $Bel(A)$. So if an agent believes $p$
to degree $x$ she believes $p$ to degree $1-x$. This is appropriate for
some propositions. For example, if $p$ is a proposition about the decay
of an atom with known half-life, or about any event with a known
objective chance and hence subject to risk and not uncertainty, the
agent's credences should reflect the chances. Since chances are precise
and form a probability function, the credences will also have these
properties. The Bayesian theory assumes that all situations can be
treated by analogy with these.

As Keynes pointed out in the famous *QJE* article [@Keynes1937], this
analogy is clearly mistaken. When $p$ is about the price of copper in
thirty years, we do not know the chance that $p$ will be true. And we do
not have enough information to form a precise credence. As Keynes had
argued in his *Treatise on Probability* sixteen years earlier, attempts
to avoid this problem by appeal to a Principle of Indifference lead to
contradiction. In *The General Theory* he noted that he still approved
of this little argument [@Keynes1936 152]. Hence Bayesians have no way
of representing our ignorance in uncertain situations. They say that all
rational agents have a precise epistemic attitude towards each
proposition, believing it to some precise degree, whereas ignorance
consists in not having such a precise attitude.

The theory of imprecise probabilities avoids all of these difficulties.
The theory is quite old, dating back to work by Gerhard @Tintner1941 and
A.Â G. @Hart1942, but has only received extensive consideration recently.
The best modern summaries are by the philosopher Isaac @Levi1980 and the
statistician Peter @Walley1991. There are minor differences, but the
theory I shall give captures all the common ingredients. According to
Bayesians, states of rational agents are represented by a single
probability function $Pr$; in the imprecise theory they are represented
by a set of probability functions $S$. The agent's credence in $p$ is
vague over the set of values that $Pr(p)$ takes for $Pr \in S$. In the
extreme case, for every $x \in [0, 1]$ there will be a $Pr \in S$ such
that $Pr(p) = x$. This represents almost total ignorance about $p$. The
set $S$ is called the 'representor' of the agent whose credences it
represents.

It is important to stress what $S$ represents, because there has been
some confusion over this[^2]. The $Pr$ do not represent the agent's
hypotheses about the correct distribution of objective chances. I use
the phrase 'objective chance', or just 'chance', to refer to a property
that plays a certain role in fundamental physics, the property which
makes it the case that the whirrings of atoms in the void is
indeterminate. Modern physics, or at least the most popular versions of
it, teaches that chance infects all fundamental physical events. These
chances fulfill all the properties that anyone has ever wanted in
probabilities. They reflect long-run frequencies of repeated events,
they put restrictions on reasonable degrees of belief, they can be
properly applied to single cases, and so on. If all fundamental physical
events are chance events, then arbitrary Boolean combinations of
fundamental physical events should also, presumably, be chance events.
But any event whatsoever is some combination of fundamental physical
events, though for many it may not be clear which combination. So
baseball games, romantic affairs and stock market movements are all
chance events in this sense, even though they are not, for instance,
repeatable events. Of course, trying to predict these using the laws of
physics will be even less productive than trying to predict them using
the methods we currently have available. Saying where all the atoms, or
quarks, currently are is humanly impossible, and perhaps theoretically
impossible as well. Even allowing for this, computing where they will
move before they get there is beyond the capacity of any possible
machine.

I distinguish between a situation where the agent does not know the
objective chance of some proposition, and a situation where the agent
has no precise credence in that proposition. An agent can have a precise
credence in $p$ without knowing its objective chance. If the agent
believes that a certain number of chance distributions are possible, and
gives each of them a precise credence, this entails she has a precise
credence in each event. (Imagine we see a fair coin be tossed, and land,
but do not see how it falls. The objective chance that it shows heads is
either one, if it does, or zero, otherwise. But the appropriate credence
in the proposition, the coin has landed heads, is one half.) Rather the
$Pr$ represent the precise credence distributions that are consistent
with real imprecise distribution. For example, for some rational agent,
and some proposition $p$, the agent's epistemic state will determine
that she believes $p$ to a greater degree than 0.2, and a lesser degree
than 0.4, but there will be no more facts about the matter. (In this
case $S$ will include a function $Pr$ such that $Pr(p) = x$ for each
$x \in [0.2,~0.4]$.) If we ask her whether she thinks $p$ is more likely
than some proposition, call it $q$, which she believes to degree 0.3,
she will not be able to say one way or the other. And this is not just
because she lacks rationality or powers of introspective observation. It
is no requirement of rationality that she believe $p$ is more likely,
less likely or equally likely than $q$ As Levi and Walley have pointed
out, the Bayesian arguments purporting to show this is a constraint on
rationality have been hopelessly circular.

The reasons for wanting to be able to represent uncertainty were
stressed by Keynes, and are generally well known. Before showing why
this theory captures Keynes's intuitions about uncertainty, I will
briefly mention two nice formal features of the theory of imprecise
probabilities. On many theories of uncertainty, particularly those that
represent uncertain agents as having interval valued degrees of belief,
it is hard to explain comparative statements, like "$p$ seems more
likely to me than $q$". These comparatives are crucial to our everyday
practices of probabilistic reasoning. We say $p$ is more probable than
$q$ according to $S$ iff for all $Pr \in S, Pr(p) > Pr(q)$. This lets us
say, as seems right, that $A$ is more probable than $A \wedge B$ for
almost all propositions $A, B$.

The second formal advantage is that we now have a simple way to update
epistemic states on receiving new evidence. Let $S$ be the agent's
current representor, and the new evidence be $e$. Then the updated
representor, $S_e$ is given as follows:
$$S_e = \{Pr(\bullet | e): Pr \in S\}$$

That is, we just conditionalise every probability function in $S$.
Again, updating has proven problematic for some approaches to
uncertainty. The theory of evidence functions, developed by
@Dempster1967 and @Shafer1976 allows that an agent can know that if
either $e$ or $\neg e$ comes in as evidence, their credence in $p$ will
rise. This seems absurd; we can know before an experiment that whatever
happens we'll be more confident in $p$ than we are now.

To take a famous example, three prisoners $X$, $Y$ and $Z$ are about to
be exiled to Elba. The governor decides on a whim that he will pardon
one, and casts a fair die to choose which. He tells the guards who is
pardoned, but instructs them not to tell the prisoners yet. $X$ pleads
futilely with his guard, and finally asks, "Can you tell me the name of
one of the others who won't be pardoned." The guard, realising this will
not reveal $X$'s fate, agrees to answer. $X$ thinks that if $Y$ is
pardoned, the guard will say $Z$, so there is at least a one-third
probability of that. And if $Z$ is pardoned, the guard will say $Y$, so
there is also at least a one-third probability of that. But if he is
pardoned, what the guard will have to decide what to say, and we can't
make probability judgements about free human decisions. On the
Dempster-Shafer theory, the probability of $X$ being freed is one-third,
but the probability of $X$ being freed and the guard saying $Y$ goes to
Elba is zero, and the probability of $X$ being freed and the guard
saying $Z$ goes to Elba is zero. This is just a standard failure of
additivity, and not at all objectionable. The problem is that when the
guard says that $Y$ will go to Elba, or that $Z$ will go to Elba, the
probability of $X$ being freed rises to one-half. (I will not go through
the mathematics here, because it can be found in any book on the
Dempster-Shafer theory. See, for example, @Walley1991 or @Yager1994.)
Since $X$ did not learn about his chances of freedom, this seems like a
rather odd result. The theory of imprecise probabilities avoids this
problem. It can be easily shown that on this theory for any evidence $e$
if the probability of $p$ given $e$ is greater than the probability of
$p$, then the probability of $p$ given $\neg e$ is less than the
probability of $p$. (Again @Walley1991 contains the proof.)

### Keynes and Imprecise Probabilities

Obviously enough, this is not the theory that Keynes formally endorses,
either in his *Treatise on Probability* [@Keynes1921] or his economic
writings. Nevertheless, I think it is an important theory for
understanding Keynes's use of uncertainty. This is because it, and it
alone, captures all of the underlying motivations of Keynes's theory of
uncertainty. Hence any economic consequences of uncertainty Keynes wants
to draw will have to be derivable from this theory.

I have so far spoken blithely of 'Keynes's theory of uncertainty',
implicitly assuming there is such a unique theory. In recent years a
number of authors (e.g. @Runde1994a
[@Davis1994; @Coates1996; @Bateman1996] have questioned this assumption,
saying that Keynes changed his theory between the writing of the
*Treatise on Probability* and *The General Theory*. I will not deal
directly with such criticisms here for a number of reasons. First, the
main dispute is over whether probabilities are given by logic or are
'merely subjective', and that debate is independent of the debate about
the effects of allowing imprecise probabilities. Secondly, there are
obvious space constraints. Many of these alternative interpretations
were put forward in book length arguments, and a fair response to them
would not be short. Thirdly, and perhaps most importantly, I take it
that the methodological game here is inference to the best explanation.
Whatever criticisms I make of others' interpretations would be rather
weak unless I showed that some other overall story was more persuasive.
And if I come up with a more persuasive story here criticisms of their
accounts will be slightly redundant. So I hope the reader at least
permits the indulgence of setting out a theory of Keynes's ideas
predicated on this rather controversial assumption.

In the *Treatise on Probability* (@Keynes1921, hereafter *TP*) Keynes
says that probability is essentially a property of ordered pairs of
propositions, or what he calls arguments. He writes $p / q = \alpha$,
for the probability of hypothesis $p$ on evidence $q$ is $\alpha$. Now
this value $\alpha$ is rather unusual. It sometimes is a number, but
sometimes not; it sometimes can be compared to all numbers, but
sometimes not; it sometimes can be compared to other probability values
such as $\beta$, but sometimes not and it can enter into arithmetic
operations. As a consequence probabilities are subject to all the usual
rules of the classical probability calculus. For example, whenever $p$
and $r$ are inconsistent, then $(p \vee r) / q = p / q + r / q$ always
holds, even when none of these values is numerical.

These five properties are rather perplexing. Indeed, Keynes's failure to
explain or justify them fully is one of the main criticisms that Ramsey
[@RamseyTruthProb 161-6] launches at Keynes's theory. But on this theory
they all fall out as consequences of our definitions. If $p/q = \alpha$
then $\alpha$ will be numerical iff there is some $x$ such that for all
$Pr \in S, Pr(p | q) = x$. Similarly $\alpha > y$, for real valued $y$,
iff $Pr(p | q) > y$ for all $Pr \in S$. A similar definition holds for
$\alpha < y$ and $\alpha = y$, from which it can be seen that it is
possible that $\alpha$ is neither greater than, less than, nor equal to
$y$. If none of these hold we say that $\alpha$ and $y$ are
incomparable. If $p / q = \alpha$ and $r / s = \beta$ then
$\alpha > \beta$ iff for all $Pr \in S, Pr(p | q) > Pr(r | s)$. Again
similar definitions of less than and equal to apply, and the consequence
of all these is that sometimes $\alpha$ and $\beta$ will be comparable,
sometimes not.

Ramsey is right to question the intelligibility of Keynes's use of
addition and multiplication. We know what it means to add and multiply
numbers, but we have no idea what it is to add or multiply non-numerical
entities. However, on this theory addition and multiplication are
perfectly natural. Since we represent $\alpha$ and $\beta$ by sets,
generally intervals, then $\alpha + \beta$ and $\alpha \dot \beta$ will
be sets. They are defined as follows. Again let $p / q\ = \alpha$ and
$r / s = \beta$.

$$\begin{aligned}
\alpha + \beta &= \{x: \exists Pr \in S (Pr(p | q) + Pr(r | s) = x)\} \\
\alpha \dot \beta &= \{x: \exists Pr \in S (Pr(p | q) \dot Pr(r | s) = x)\} \end{aligned}$$

These definitions are natural in the sense that we are entitled to say
that the '+' in $\alpha + \beta$means the same as the '+' in 2 + 3. And
the definitions show why Keynes's $\alpha$'s and $\beta$'s will obey the
axioms of the probability calculus. Even if $p / q$ and $\neg p / q$ are
non-numerical, $p / q + \neg p / q$ will equal {1}, or effectively 1. So
we have something like the additivity axiom, without its normal
counterintuitive baggage. The main problem with additivity is that
sometimes we may have very little confidence in either $p$ or $\neg p$,
but we are certain that $p \vee \neg p$. If we measure confidence by the
lower bound on these probability intervals, this is all possible on our
theory. Our technical apparatus removes much of the mystery behind
Keynes's theory, and fends off an important objection of Ramsey's.

The most famous of Keynes's conceptual innovations in the *TP* is his
introduction of 'weight'. He does this in the following, relatively
opaque, paragraph.

> As the relevant evidence at our disposal increases, the magnitude of
> the probability of the argument may either decrease or increase,
> according as the new knowledge strengthens the unfavourable or the
> favourable evidence; but *something* seems to have increased in either
> case, -- we have a more substantial basis upon which to rest our
> conclusion. I express this by saying that an accession of new evidence
> increases the *weight* of an argument. New evidence will sometimes
> decrease the probability of an argument, but it will always increase
> its 'weight' [@Keynes1921 77, italics in original].

The idea is that $p / q$ measures how the evidence in $q$ is balanced
between supporting $p$ and supporting $\neg p$. The concept of weight is
needed if we want to also know how much evidence there is. Note that
weight only increases when relevant evidence comes in, not when any
evidence comes in. The weight of the argument from my evidence to
"Oswald killed JFK" is not increased when I discover the Red Sox won
last night.

The simplest definition of relevance is that new evidence $e$ is
irrelevant to $p$ given old evidence $q$ iff $p / q \wedge e)= p / q$,
and relevant otherwise. Now there is a problem. Two pieces of evidence
$e_1$ and $e_2$ can be irrelevant taken together, but relevant taken
separately. For a general example, let $e_1$ be $p \vee r$ and $e_2$ be
$\neg p \vee r$, for almost any proposition $r$. If I receive $e_1$ and
$e_2$ sequentially, the weight of the argument from my evidence to $p$
will have increased twice as I receive these new pieces of evidence. So
it must be higher than it was when I started. But if I just received the
two pieces of evidence at once, as one piece of evidence, I would have
properly regarded it as irrelevant. Hence the weight in question would
be unchanged. So it looks as if weight depends implausibly not on what
the evidence is, but on the order in which it was obtained.

Keynes avoids this implausibility by tightening up the definition of
irrelevance. He says that $e$ is irrelevant to $p / q$ iff there are no
propositions $e_1$ and $e_2$ such that $e$ is logically equivalent to
$e_1\ \wedge e_2$ and either $e_1$ or $e_2$ is relevant to $p / q$.
Unfortunately, as I noted in the previous paragraph for virtually any
such evidence proposition there will be such propositions $e_1$ and
$e_2$. This was first noticed by @Carnap1950. Keynes, had he noticed
this, would have had three options. He could conceded that everything is
relevant to everything, including last night's baseball results to the
identity of Kennedy's assassin; he could have conceded that the order in
which evidence appears does matter, or he could have given up the claim
that new relevant evidence *always* increases the weight of arguments.

The last option is plausible. @Runde1990 defends it, but for quite
different reasons. He thinks weight measures the ratio of evidence we
have to total evidence we believe is available. Since new evidence might
lead us to believe there is much more evidence available than we had
previously suspected, the weight might go down. I believe it holds for a
quite different reason, one borne out by Keynes's use of uncertainty in
his economics. In *The General Theory* (@Keynes1936, hereafter *GT*)
Keynes stresses the connection between uncertainty and 'low weight'
(*GT*: 148n). If we regard $p$ as merely risky the weight of the
argument from our evidence to $p$ is high, if we regard $p$ as uncertain
the weight is low. In the *Quarterly Journal of Economics* article he
argues that gambling devices are, or can be thought to be, free of
uncertainty, whereas human actions are subject to uncertainty. So the
intervention of humans can take a situation from being risky to being
uncertain, and hence decrease the weight in question.

For example, imagine we are playing a rather simple form of poker, where
each player is dealt five cards and then bets on who has the best hand.
Before the bets start, I can work out the chance that some other player,
say Monica, has a straight. So my credence in the proposition *Monica
has a straight* will be precise. But as soon as the betting starts, my
credence in this will vary, and will probably become imprecise. Do those
facial ticks mean that she is happy with the cards or disappointed? Is
she betting high because she has a strong hand or because she is
bluffing? Before the betting starts we have risk, but no uncertainty,
because the relevant probabilities are all known. After betting starts,
uncertainty is rife.

The poker example supports my analysis of weight. If weight of argument
rises with reduction of uncertainty, then in some rare circumstances
weight of arguments *decreases* with new evidence. Let $[x_1, x_2]$ be
the set given by $\{x: Pr(p | q) = x\}$ for some $Pr \in S\}$, where $S$
is the agent's representor. Then the weight of the argument from $p$ to
$q$, for this agent, is $1-(x_2 - x_1)$. That is, the weight is one when
the agent has a precise degree of belief in $p$, zero when she is
totally uncertain, and increasing the narrower the interval $[x_1, x_2]$
gets. Now in most cases new relevant evidence will increase the weight,
but in some cases, like when we are watching Monica, this will not
happen. I follow Lawson (1985) in saying that $p$ is uncertain for an
agent with evidence $q$ iff $p / q$ is non-numerical, i.e. iff the
weight of the argument from $q$ to $p$ is less than one. Hence we get
the connection between uncertainty and weight Keynes wanted. I also
claim that the bigger $x_2 - x_1$ is, the more $p / q$ is unlike a real
number, the more uncertain $p$ is. Keynes clearly intended uncertainty
to admit of degrees @Keynes1937, so this move is faithful to his intent.

Keynes's theory of probability is based around some non-numerical values
whose nature and behaviour is left largely unexplained, and a concept of
weight which is subject to a telling and simple objection. Nevertheless,
his core ideas, that probabilities can but need not be precise, and that
we need a concept like weight as well as just probability, both seem
right for more general reasons. Hence the theory here, which captures
the Keynesian intuitions while explaining away his mysterious
non-numerical values and making the concept of weight more rigorous,
looks to be as good as it gets for a Keynesian theory of uncertainty.

One particularly attractive feature of the account is how conservative
it is at the technical level. We do not need to change our *logic*,
change which things we think are logical truths, or which things follow
from which other things, in order to support our account of uncertainty.
This is in marked contrast to accounts based on fuzzy logic or on logics
of vagueness. Not only are such changes in the logic unmotivated, they
appear to lead to mistakes. No matter how uncertain we are about how the
stock will move over the day, we know it will either close higher or not
close higher; and we know it will not both close higher and not close
higher. The classical laws of excluded middle and non-contradiction seem
to hold even in cases of massive uncertainty. This seems to pose a
serious problem for theories of uncertainty based on alternative logics.
The best approach is one, like the theory here, which is innovative in
how it accounts for uncertainty, and conservative in the logic it
presupposes.

So as a theory of uncertainty I think this account has a lot to be said
for it. However, it cannot support the economic arguments Keynes rests
on it.

### The Economic Consequences of Uncertainty

Uncertainty can impact on the demand for an investment in two related
ways. First, it can affect the value of that particular investment;
secondly, it can affect the value of other things which compete with
that investment for capital. The same story is true for investment as a
whole. First, uncertainty may reduce demand for investment *directly* by
making a person who would otherwise be tempted to invest more cautious
and hence reluctant to invest. Secondly, if this direct impact is
widespread enough, it will increase the demand for money, and hence its
price. But the price of money is just the market rate of interest. And
the return that an investment must be expected to make before anyone,
even an investor not encumbered by uncertainty, will make it is the rate
of interest.

When uncertainty reduces investment by increasing interest rates, I will
say it has an *indirect* impact on investment. Keynes has an argument
for the existence of this indirect impact. First, he takes the amount of
consumption as a given (*GT*:Â 245). Or more precisely, for any period he
takes the amount of available resources that will *not* be allocated to
consumption as a given. There are three possible uses for these
resources: they can be invested, they can be saved as bonds or loans, or
they can be hoarded as money. There are many different types of
investment, but Keynes assumes that any agent will already have made
their judgement as to which is the best of these, so we need only
consider that one. There will also be many different length bonds which
the agent can hold. So as to simplify the discussion, Keynes proposes
just treating these two at a time, with the shorter length bond called
'money' and the longer length loan called 'debts' (*GT*: 167n). Hence
the rate of interest is the difference between the expected return of
the shorter bond over the life of the longer bond and the return of the
longer bond. So the rate of interest that we are interested in need not
be positive, and when the two bond lengths are short will usually be
zero. However, it is generally presumed in discussions that the rate is
positive. Now, Keynes assumes that an agent will only allocate resources
to investment if investment looks to be at least as worthwhile as
holding money, and at least as worthwhile as holding debts. In other
words, he makes the standard reduction of $n$-way choice to a set of
2-way choices[^3]. Usually if someone is of a mind to invest they will
not favour holding money over holding debts. The only motivation for
holding money, given positive interest rates, could be a desire to have
accessible command over purchasing power, and investment foregoes that
command. So in practice we only need look at two of the three possible
pairwise choices here. Hence I will ignore the choice between investing
and holding money, and only look at the money-debt choice and the
debt-investment trade-off.

Holding a debt provides a relatively secure return in terms of money.
Relatively secure because there is the possibility of default. In
practice, this means that there is not a sharp distinction between debts
and investments, rather a continuum with say government bonds at one
extreme and long-term derivatives at the other. Some activities that
have the formal structure of 'debts', like say provision of venture
capital, will be closer to the investment end of the continuum. Unlike
debts then, investments as a rule do not have a secure return in terms
of money. In most cases they do not even have a precise expected return
(*GT*: 149; @Keynes1937 [113]). Keynes does not presume that this means
that people never invest unless the expected return on the investment is
greater than the expected (indeed, known) return on debts. He says
explicitly that were this true then 'there might not be much
investment'. Instead, he says that investment under uncertainty depends
on 'confidence' (*GT*: 150). Therefore, the following looks compatible
with his position.

Bayesians say that each gamble has a precise expected value. The
expected return on a bet that pays \$1 if some fair coin lands heads is
50 cents. On this theory, expected values are imprecise, because
probabilities are imprecise. Formally, say $E_{Pr}(G) = \alpha$ means
that the expected return on $G$ according to probability function $Pr$
is $\alpha$. Roughly, the expected value for an agent of a gamble $G$
will be $\{x: \exists Pr \in S: (E_{Pr}(G) = x)\}$, the set of expected
values of the bet according to each probability function in the agent's
representor. Note that these are different from the possible outcomes of
the bet. As we saw in the case of the coin, expected value can differ
from any possible value of the bet. So let the expected value of
inesting a certain sum be $[\alpha, \beta]$, and the expected value of
buying a debt with that money be $\chi$. Then the agent will invest iff
$(1 - \rho)\alpha + \rho \beta \geq \chi$, where $\rho \in [0, 1]$
measures the 'state of confidence'.[^4] Now when a crisis erupts, $\rho$
will go to 0, and investment will dry up. In such cases the decision
theory is similar to the one advanced by @Levi1980, @Strat1990 and
@Jaffray1994. Since we are interested in a theory of unemployment, we
are primarily interested in the cases where $\rho$ is quite low, in
which cases we can say uncertainty is reducing investment.

That last statement might seem dubious at face value. In part, what I
mean by it is this. When $\rho$ is low the value of a set of bets will
in general be *more* than the sum of the value of the bets taken
separately. Because individual investors are fearful of exposure to
uncertainty, which is presumably what $\rho$ being low means, sets of
investments which if undertaken collectively would be profitable (and
everyone agrees that they would) will not be undertaken individually.
This suggests a reason that theorists have thought government
intervention might be appropriate in times of crisis. Alternatively, if
$\rho$ is low then the value of an investment, how much we will be
prepared to pay for it, will probably be lower than our best estimate of
its expected return, assuming the latter to be near
$(\alpha + \beta) /2$.

I shall focus more closely on the indirect effects of uncertainty in
section 5. The central idea is that the rate of interest, being the
price of money, is completely determined in the market for money.
However, this market has some rather strange properties. After all,
money is barren, and it can generally be traded for something that is
not barren. So, as Keynes puts it, why would anyone 'outside a lunatic
asylum', want it? Why would the demand for money not drop to zero as
soon as the rate of interest is positive?

> Because, partly on reasonable and partly on instinctive grounds, our
> desire to hold money as a store of wealth is a barometer of the degree
> of our distrust of our own calculations and conventions concerning the
> future \... The possession of actual money lulls our disquietude; and
> the premium which we require to make us part with money is the measure
> of the degree of our disquietude [@Keynes1937 116].

Therefore, more uncertainty means more demand for money means higher
interest rates. The rest of the story is standard. Even the confident
agent will be disinclined to invest once the rate of interest rises.
Using the little decision theory outlined above, more uncertainty means
the gap between $\alpha$ and $\beta$ grows, which if $\rho$ is low will
tend to reduce $(1-\rho)\alpha + \rho \beta$, the 'certainty equivalent'
of the expectation of the investment's worth. On the other hand,
uncertainty on the part of the community will tend, for similar reasons,
to increase $\chi$. Either way, investment suffers, and hence so does
employment.

### Uncertainty and Money

There is something very odd about all that we have done so far. Agents
react to uncertainty by making their returns measured in dollars more
stable. However, in doing so they make their returns measured in any
other good less stable. If you have no idea what the price of widgets
will be in twelve months time, then holding only widgets increases the
uncertainty about how many dollars you will be worth then. However, it
makes you more certain about how many widgets you will be worth. Why
this preference for money? We deserve an explanation as to why one kind
of uncertainty is given such a central place and other kinds are
completely ignored.

Keynes has one explanation. He argues, or perhaps assumes, essentialism
about money. Indeed the title of chapter 17 of *The General Theory* is
'The Essential Properties of Interest and Money'. These essential
properties are entirely functional. As Hicks puts it, "Money is defined
by its functions \... money is what money does" [@Hicks1967 1]. The
explanation is that agents try to minimise uncertainty relative to
whatever plays the functional role of money. Therefore, the explanation
does not rely on any mystical powers of dollar bills. Rather, the work
is done by the functional analysis of money.

As a first approximation, the functional role money plays is that it is
a medium of exchange. Keynes does not think this is quite the essential
property; rather he says that money is essentially 'liquid', and
perceived to be liquid. This means that if we hold money we are in a
position to discharge obligations and make new purchases as they seem
appropriate with greatest convenience and least cost. Even this is not
what is given as the official essential property of money. To make the
proof that demand for money is not demand for labour easier Keynes takes
the essential properties of money to be its negligible elasticities of
production and substitution. However, he makes clear that these are
important because of their close connection to liquidity (*GT*: 241).
Indeed, when he comes to define a non-monetary economy, he simply
defines it as one where there is no good such that the benefits it
confers via its liquidity, its 'liquidity premium' exceeds the carrying
costs of the good. So the properties of having a negligible elasticity
of production and substitution seem necessary but insufficient for
something to be money.

The reason that money uncertainty is more problematic than widget
uncertainty is just that money is liquid. At the end of the day, the
point of holding investments, bonds or money is not to maximise the
return in terms of such units; it is to be used somehow for consumption.
Hence, we prefer, *ceteris paribus*, to store wealth in ways that can be
easily exchanged for consumption goods as and when required. Further, we
may be about to come across more information about productive uses for
our wealth, and if we do, we would prefer to have the least
inconvenience about changing how we use wealth. Money is going to be the
best store of wealth for each of these purposes. The strength of these
preferences determines the liquidity premium that attaches to money.

So Keynes's story here is essentially a 'missing markets' story. If
there were markets for every kind of transaction there would be no
liquidity premium attaching to money, and hence no reason to be averse
to uncertainty in terms of money returns as opposed to uncertainty in
terms of X's shares returns. There is a methodological difference here
between decision theorists and economists. In decision theory it is
common to specify what choices an agent does have. These will usually be
finite, or at least simply specified. In economics it is more common to
specify what choices an agent does not have, which markets are
'missing'. In a sense the difference is purely cosmetic, but it can
change the way problems are looked at. Since Keynes requires here some
markets to be missing, it might be worth investigating what happens here
from the more restrictive framework ordinarily applied in decision
theory.

In some decision-theoretic contexts, we can prefer liquidity even when
we are completely certain about what our choices are and what their
outcomes will be. Say we are in a game where the object is to maximise
our money over 2 days. We start with \$100. On day 1, we have a choice
of buying for \$100 a ticket that will pay \$200 at the end of day 2,
and is non-transferable, or doing nothing. On day 2, if we still have
our \$100, we can buy with it a voucher which pays \$300 at the end of
day 2, or do nothing. Obviously, the best strategy is to do nothing on
day 1, and buy the voucher on day 2. The point is just that money here
has enough of a liquidity premium on day 1 that we are prepared to hold
it and earn no interest for that day rather than buy the ticket (or two
day bond) which will earn interest. So uncertainty is not a necessary
condition for liquidity premia to exist. On the other hand, perhaps it
is necessary for liquidity premia to exist in a world something like
ours, where agents neither have all the choices they would have in a
perfect market, nor as few as in this simple game. If we added a market
for tickets and vouchers to our simple game the prices would be fixed so
that money would lose its liquidity premium. Keynes suggests something
like this is true for the worlds he is considering: "*uncertainty* as to
the future course of the rate of interest is the sole intelligible
explanation of the type of liquidity preference \[under consideration\]"
(*GT*:Â 201). However here he merely means lack of certainty; there is no
proof that if every agent had precise credences liquidity preference
ought to disappear. So it looks like uncertainty in the sense discussed
here, vague reasonable beliefs, does no theoretical work. Perhaps this
is a bit quick, as the little game I considered is so far from a
real-life situation. So I will look more closely at the effects
uncertainty is supposed to have. Since it has received the bulk of the
theoretical attention, I start with the indirect effects of uncertainty.

### Uncertainty and Liquidity Preference

Keynes thinks the question of why money is demanded at all, why we do
not all move from holding money into holding debts as soon as the rate
of interest goes positive, needs answering. And he thinks the answer
here will be particularly relevant to theories about the rate of
interest. If the market in general is at equilibrium then the market in
trades between any two goods must also be in equilibrium; in particular
it cannot be that there are people holding money who would be prepared
to buy debts at the current interest rate. So if the equilibrium
interest rate is positive, there must be some people who would prefer to
hold money than hold debts. This fact Keynes takes to be central to the
correct theory of the rate of interest. Hence, to determine what the
rate of interest will be, and what will cause it to change, I need to
determine what causes a demand for money.

Keynes distinguishes four motives for holding money (*GT*: Ch. 13;
[@Keynes1937b 215-223]). Two of these, the transactions motive and the
finance motive, need not detain us. They just relate to the need to make
payments in money and on time. The third, the speculative motive, is
often linked to uncertainty, and indeed Keynes does so (*GT*: 201). But
'uncertainty' here is just used to mean absence of certainty, that is
the existence of risk, which as noted above is not how I am using
'uncertainty'. As @Runde1994b points out, an agent who is certain as to
future movements in interest rates may still hold money for speculative
reasons, as long as other agents who are not so certain have made
mistaken judgements. The fourth motive will hold most of my attention.
Keynes argues that we may hold money for purely precautionary reasons.

> To provide for contingencies requiring sudden expenditure and for
> unforeseen opportunities of advantageous purchases, and also to hold
> an asset of which the value is fixed in terms of money to met a
> subsequent liability fixed in terms of money, are further motives for
> holding cash (*GT*: 196).

@Davidson1988 [@Davidson1991] justifies this as follows. Uncertainty
arises whenever agents do not have sufficient knowledge to calculate the
numerical probability of an event. This is given a rather frequentist
gloss in Davidson, but that is not necessary. His idea is that we know
what the probability of $p$ is when we know the frequency of $p$-type
events in the past and we know the future will resemble the past in this
respect. The latter is cashed out as saying $p$ is governed by an
'ergodic process'. We can replace all this by saying that $p$ is subject
to uncertainty whenever we do not know its objective chance, whether or
not objective chance ought to be analysed by frequentist approaches.
Davidson then argues that since for most $p$ we do not have this
knowledge, we have to adopt 'sensible' approaches like holding money.

@Runde1994b objects that Davidson's story is incoherent. On Davidson's
theoretical story there are only two epistemic states relative to $p$
that are possible. An agent can know the chance of $p$, in which case
their credence is set equal to it, or they are completely uncertain
about it. In the latter case there can be no reason for taking some
action rather than another. Now the reason that it is 'sensible' to hold
money is that we expect money to be liquid. However, we do not know the
chance of money remaining liquid; whether or not money remains liquid is
not determined by an ergodic process. Hence, we have no reason for
letting that partial belief be a guide to action.

This is a fair criticism, but it can be met by amending the theory
rather than by giving it up. On my theory, if an agent knows the chance
of $p$ they will have a precise degree of belief in $p$. When they do
not their degree of belief will, in general, be vague but not totally
vague. As with Keynes, I have uncertainty come in degrees. This
amendment is enough to rescue Davidson's theory. An agent might not know
the chance that money will become illiquid in the next short period of
time, but they might know enough for it to be reasonable to have a
credence in that proposition which is vague over some small interval
close to zero. It may still be sensible to hold some money even when the
expected return on other investments really is vague. But is it sensible
to prefer fixed to uncertain returns? In other words, is there a direct
effect of uncertainty that makes people prefer bonds to investments?

### Uncertainty and Indecision

As Keynes repeatedly stressed, investment is not like a game of chance
where the expected results are known in advance. And this is part of the
explanation for the extreme instability in investment levels compared to
other economic variables.

> The state of long-term expectation \... does not solely depend on the
> most probable forecast we can make. It also depends on the
> *confidence* with which we make this forecast (*GT*: 148).
>
> Human decisions affecting the future, whether personal or political or
> economic, cannot depend on strict mathematical expectation, since the
> basis for making such calculations does not exist \... it is our
> innate urge to activity which makes the wheels go round, our rational
> selves choosing between the alternatives as best we are able,
> calculating where we can, but often falling back for our motive on
> whim or sentiment or chance (*GT*: 162-3).

The most charitable reading of Keynes here is to say he agreed, in
principle, with what is sometimes referred to as a Horwitz-style
decision rule. If the expected return of an investment is vague over
$[\alpha, \beta]$ then its 'value' is given by
$(1-\rho)\alpha + \rho \beta$, where $\rho \in [0, 1]$ is a measure of
confidence. By the 1937 article, he has become more interested in the
special case where confidence has collapsed and $\rho$ is approaching 0.
This interpretation would explain all his references to decision-making
under uncertainty in *The General Theory* and subsequent discussion,
provided we make the safe assumption that 'cold calculation' would only
have us spend $x$ on an investment with expected return
$[\alpha, \beta]$ when $\alpha \geq x$. In particular, any
interpretation of the underlying decision theory here will have to give
some role to 'whim or sentiment or chance', and I give it a variable,
'$\rho$'. With this theory, I have the extensions needed to avoid
Runde's objection to Davidson. I have a continuum of degrees of
uncertainty, rather than a raw dichotomy, and I have an explanation of
why it is 'sensible' to prefer gambles with known expected returns, at
least when $\rho$ is relatively low.

This theory is meant to serve two related purposes. It is meant to show
why we might prefer money to debts, even though our best estimate of the
expected return of the debts is positive, and again it is meant to show
why we might prefer debts to investments even when our best estimate of
the expected return of the investment is higher. And I think if the
decision rule stipulated were plausible, it would show that uncertainty
did have an economic effect. In particular, I think it would show both
that in times of crises when $\rho$ heads down, the level of investment
will decrease even with other things being equal, and that collective
action can be justified even when individual action is not. That is, the
government can make sets of investments that are expected to be
profitable although none of the individual investments is expected to be
profitable.

The decision theory does not, however, seem plausible. First, there are
some technical problems for this theory. The problem is that if
$\rho < \frac{1}{2}$, then in cases where uncertainty is guaranteed to
increase in the near future agents following this rule will make
decisions they are sure to regret. For example, assume an agent with
$\rho = \frac{1}{3}$ now has credence $\frac{1}{2}$ in $p$, but knows
that some evidence will come in such that her credence in $p$ will
become vague over $[0.3, 0.7]$ whatever the result of the experiment. As
we saw in the case of poker players, this is plausible in some
situations. The agent will now pay 50 cents for a bet which pays \$1 if
$p$ and nothing otherwise, but after the evidence comes in she'll sell
that bet for about 44 cents, incurring a sure loss. I leave it to the
reader to judge the importance of these technical problems, given the
rarity of cases where uncertainty is guaranteed to rise.

There is also a philosophical problem. What precisely is $\rho$ supposed
to represent? If it is some kind of belief, its effects should have been
incorporated into the credences. If it is some kind of desire its
effects should have been incorporated into the evaluation of each of the
states. This objection could be avoided, perhaps, if Keynes was trying
to argue against the theory that investors just maximise dollar expected
returns. It is not entirely clear whom Keynes thinks he is arguing
against at some points. If this is his enemy, he is fighting a straw
man, one who is vulnerable to much simpler objections. Whoever thought
that all investment is profit driven, that no one ever went into
business because they thought it would be fun to run a newspaper?
Keynes's only viable opponents here are saying that investors calculate
the expected return, in utils, of each possible investment and choose
the one whose returns are highest. Now perhaps for many dollar returns
are the most important factor in determining util returns, but this is
certainly not the only cause.

If $\rho$ represents something which is neither a belief nor a desire,
then it is hard to see what effect it could have on action. Perhaps
there are some exceptions to the rule that actions are caused only by
beliefs and desires combining in the right way, such as actions caused
by values, but these appear irrelevant to Keynes's considerations, and
he does not appeal to such exemptions. After all, he describes
investment decisions made where the 'cold calculations' do not determine
what should be done as being made by 'whim or sentiment or chance'. Now
whims and sentiments are surely desires, although chance is in a
different boat. If he had just said 'chance' here he may have committed
himself to a different decision theory, one where the agent can under
uncertainty make any decision which is not known to be sub-optimal. But
this does not justify the conclusion that uncertainty decreases
investment; under that theory it is random whether uncertainty increases
or decreases investment. Hence Keynes appears to be implausibly
committed to a mental state which is neither a belief nor a desire but
affects action.

It might be objected here that I am relying on an overly individualistic
theory of motivation; that what Keynes is committed to is nothing more
than what anyone who has learned the difference between Robinson Crusoe
economics and real-world economics would believe. There is an important
truth behind this objection: the social causes of action cannot be
overlooked. But this is not what I have done. The core assumption I made
is that the only mental states relevant to action are beliefs and
desires. Now the beliefs and desires that are relevant may not be
(directly) concerned with the action at hand; they may be beliefs and
desires about how society will view this action, or about similar
actions which may or may not be performed by other members in society.
And the beliefs and desires may not have as their immediate cause
careful inference by the agent in question; they may be caused by the
wave of panic or optimism in which the agent is caught up. In the real
world, agents do not always change their beliefs and desires by
reflection on new evidence, often emotion plays a larger role. So
society has both evidential and non-evidential effects on action. But
every time, the causal chain goes via the beliefs and desires of the
agent. Society causes actions by causing changes in the beliefs and
desires of individuals. It is wrong to think that action is never caused
by beliefs and desires about society, it is wrong to think that society
never directly causes beliefs and desires which lead to action, but none
of this implies that there can be mental states other than belief and
desire relevant to action.

### Disquietude

There are some comments from Keynes that suggest this reading is a
little unfair. Rather than having a distinctive decision theory, he
perhaps has a distinctive theory about what ought enter into the
decision-theoretic calculations. The standard theory for why there is a
demand for insurance is the falling marginal utility of money. Agents
purchase insurance, and accept a lower expected dollar return because
with insurance their expected util return, at the end of the duration of
the insurance, is higher than if they had not purchased. This is the
story given in, for example, @FreidmanSavage1952 where the existence of
demand for insurance is taken as evidence for the declining marginal
utility of money. But there is another reason agents might buy
insurance. They might simply feel happier, over the duration of the
insured period, knowing that they have insurance and are hence exposed
to fewer risks or uncertainties than otherwise. If this is true then
their expected 'wealth' in both dollars and utils at the end of a period
might be lower if they insure than if otherwise, but it will be
worthwhile because of the benefits during the period. Keynes suggests
that this same desire for quietude can cause a demand for money. I
presume, though it is not entirely clear, that this desire should be
included within the precautionary motives for holding money.

> There are not two separate factors affecting the rate of investment,
> namely, the schedule of the marginal efficiency of capital \[the
> expected return of investments\] and the state of confidence. The
> state of confidence is relevant because it is one of the major factors
> determining the former (*GT*: 149).
>
> For the fact that each individual investor flatters himself that his
> commitment is "liquid" \... calms his nerves and makes him much more
> willing to run a risk (*GT*: 160).
>
> The possession of actual money lulls our disquietude; and the premium
> which we require to make us part with money is the measure of the
> degree of our disquietude [@Keynes1937 116].
>
> A liquidity premium \... is not even expected to be rewarded. It is a
> payment, not for the expectation of increased tangible income at the
> end of the period, but for an increase sense of comfort and confidence
> during the period [@Keynes1938 293-294].

This explanation of the demand for certain returns is in some ways
conservative and some ways radical. It is conservative because it does
not immediately change the technical properties of preference. Many
heterodox theories of preference drop such theoretical restrictions as
transitivity of preferences. By contrast the theory Keynes appears to be
advocating is it least in principle conservative on this front. Agents
are still going round maximising expected utility, just now it is
expected utility over a period, not at the end of the period.

But it is not all conservative. If we explain economic decisions in
terms of the disquietude of the investor we discard the distinction
between investment and consumption. It was always known that there were
some goods that were not comfortably categorised, particularly cars, but
this move makes every good in part a consumption good. If all this meant
was that some helpful classifications have to be questioned, it would
not be important. Rather, its importance flows from its implications for
the norms for investment. It is always irrational to make an investment
which will incur a sure loss. This principle is used to derive
wide-ranging implications for decision-theory. But it is not irrational
to make a consumption decision which will result in sure loss at the end
of a period in exchange for goods during that period. It is not always
irrational to pay ten dollars for a movie ticket, even though this will
incur a sure loss in the sense the buyer will surely have less wealth at
the end of the movie than if they had not bought the ticket.

Given this, the technical complaint I raised against the Horvitz-style
decision rule misses the target. And the philosophical concern about
what $\rho$ represents is irrelevant. If the expected returns only
measure how much various gambles will be worth at the end of the period,
then some desires have not yet been included in our calculations. That
is, $\rho$ represents some desires but the theory is not guilty of
double-counting. So far this all seems to work, and explain the role of
uncertainty. Indeed, I think this is the best extension of Keynes's
views in this area.

While there seem to be few theoretical objections which can be raised at
this point, there is a rather telling empirical objection. The only role
given to disquietude in this theory is in deciding between alternatives
where the returns on at least one are uncertain. But it seems
implausible that disquietude could have this effect, but have no effect
when choices are being made between alternatives where at least one is
risky. I doubt the feelings of disquiet would be any different were I to
have a large fortune riding on a roulette wheel or a baseball game.
Disquietude arises because we do not know what will happen; maybe for
some people it is greater when we do not know the expected returns, but
I doubt it. Again, perhaps there is an explanation for demand for money
in the real world to be found here, but uncertainty plays no role in the
story, or at best a small cameo.

### Summary

Keynes argued that uncertainty has a major economic impact. By driving
people to store their wealth in ways with more stable returns, it
increases the demand for cash and decreases the demand for investments.
Not only does it drive down investments in this direct way, the
increased demand for cash leads to higher interest rates and hence
people are driven out of investment into bonds. However, there are a few
problems with the story. First, the motivation for demanding returns
fixed with respect to a certain good can only be that the markets
between that good and other goods are more complete. But if that is the
case there is a reason to demand that good even when the world is
completely certain. Secondly, the only decision-theoretic justification
for this demand for fixed returns could be the disquiet generated by not
knowing the return. This follows from the formalisation of uncertainty
advocated in sections 1 and 2. But this disquiet could just as easily be
generated by risk as by uncertainty. So Keynes has not shown that
uncertainty has any particular economic impact. That's the bad news. The
good news is that many of the arguments seem to work without the
reliance on uncertainty.

[^1]: For this paper I follow @Walley1991 in describing those theorists
    who require that all agents have precise degrees of belief and these
    degrees form a probability function as Bayesians. There is some
    dispute as to the accuracy of this labelling, particularly as some
    paradigm case Bayesians, such as @Jeffrey1983 and @vanFraassen1990,
    accept that degrees of belief can be vague. However, there is
    probably no other name as convenient or as recognisable.

[^2]: See, for example, @GardenforsSahlin1982, @Levi1982.

[^3]: Standard, but I bring it up because the modern theorist whose
    decision theory is closest to the one Keynes seems to adopt, Levi,
    explicitly rejects it.

[^4]: In case the reader fears I am being absurdly formal with an
    essentially informal idea, Keynes had such a variable, there
    described as measuring the 'state of the news', in early drafts, but
    it did not survive to the final stage. So my proposal is not a
    million miles from what Keynes intended merely by virtue of being
    algebraic.
