---
title: "Knowledge, Bets and Interests"
description: |
  This paper argues that the interest-relativity of knowledge cannot be explained by the interest-relativity of belief. The discussion starts with an argument that knowledge plays a key pair of roles in decision theory. It is then argued that knowledge cannot play that role unless knowledge is interest-relative. The theory of the interest-relativity of belief is reviewed and revised. That theory can explain some of the cases that are used to suggest knowledge is interest-relative. But it canâ€™t explain some cases involving ignorance, or mistake, about the odds at which a bet is offered. The paper ends with an argument that these cases require positing interest-relative defeaters, which affect whether an agent knows something without affecting whether she believes it, or is justified in believing it.
date: July 26 2012
author:
  - name: Brian Weatherson 
    url: http://brian.weatherson.org
    affiliation: University of Michigan
    affiliation_url: https://umich.edu
    orcid_id: 0000-0002-0830-141X
doi: "10.1093/acprof:oso/9780199693702.003.0004"
categories:
  - epistemology
  - interest-relativity
  - games and decisions
citation: false
citation_url: https://doi.org/10.1093/acprof:oso/9780199693702.003.0004
bibliography: ../../../articles/Rbib.bib
self-contained: false
preview: sully.jpg
output:
  distill::distill_article:
    toc: true
    toc_depth: 4
    number_sections: true
---


When you pick up a volume like this one, which describes itself as being
about 'knowledge ascriptions', you probably expect to find it full of
papers on epistemology, broadly construed. And you'd probably expect
many of those papers to concern themselves with cases where the
interests of various parties (ascribers, subjects of the ascriptions,
etc.) change radically, and this affects the truth values of various
ascriptions. And, at least in this paper, your expectations will be
clearly met.

<aside>
Published in _Knowledge Ascriptions_, edited by Jessica Brown and Mikkel Gerken, OUP, 75-103.

Picture by [Phillip Ritz](https://www.flickr.com/photos/82193492@N00) via [Creative Commons](https://search.creativecommons.org/photos/63654f36-455f-481d-ba91-ba1befb23a40).
</aside>

But here's an interesting contrast. If you'd picked up a volume of
papers on 'belief ascriptions', you'd expect to find a radically
different menu of writers and subjects. You'd expect to find a lot of
concern about names and demonstratives, and about how they can be used
by people not entirely certain about their denotation. More generally,
you'd expect to find less epistemology, and much more mind and language.
I haven't read all the companion papers to mine in this volume, but I
bet you won't find much of that here.

This is perhaps unfortunate, since belief ascriptions and knowledge
ascriptions raise at least some similar issues. Consider a kind of
contextualism about belief ascriptions, which holds that (L) can be
truly uttered in some contexts, but not in others, depending on just
what aspects of Lois Lane's psychology are relevant in the
conversation.[^1]

(L) Lois Lane believes that Clark Kent is vulnerable to kryptonite.

We could imagine a theorist who says that whether (L) can be uttered
truly depends on whether it matters to the conversation that Lois Lane
might not recognise Clark Kent when he's wearing his Superman uniform.
And, this theorist might continue, this isn't because 'Clark Kent' is a
context-sensitive expression; it is rather because 'believes' is
context-sensitive. Such a theorist will also, presumably, say that
whether (K) can be uttered truly is context-sensitive.

(K) Lois Lane knows that Clark Kent is vulnerable to kryptonite.

And so, our theorist is a kind of contextualist about knowledge
ascriptions. But they might agree with approximately none of the
motivations for contextualism about knowledge ascriptions put forward by
@Cohen1988, @DeRose1995 or @Lewis1996b. Rather, they are a contextualist
about knowledge ascriptions solely because they are contextualist about
belief ascriptions like (L).

Call the position I've just described **doxastic contextualism** about
knowledge ascriptions. It's a kind of contextualism all right; it says
that (K) is context sensitive, and not merely because of the
context-sensitivity of any term in the 'that'-clause. But it explains
the contextualism solely in terms of the contextualism of belief
ascriptions. The more familiar kind of contextualism about knowledge
ascriptions we'll call **non-doxastic contextualism**. Note that the way
we're classifying theories, a view that holds that (K) is
context-sensitive both because (L) is context-sensitive *and* because
Cohen *et al* are correct is a version of non-doxastic contextualism.
The label 'non-doxastic' is being used to mean that the contextualism
isn't solely doxastic, rather than as denying contextualism about belief
ascriptions.

We can make the same kind of division among interest-relative
invariantist, or IRI, theories of knowledge ascriptions. Any kind of IRI
will say that there are sentences of the form *S knows that p* whose
truth depends on the interests, in some sense, of $S$. But we can divide
IRI theories up the same way that we divide up contextualist theories.

Doxastic IRI

:   Knowledge ascriptions are interest-relative, but their
    interest-relativity traces solely to the interest-relativity of the
    corresponding belief ascriptions.

Non-Doxastic IRI

:   Knowledge ascriptions are interest-relative, and their
    interest-relativity goes beyond the interest-relativity of the
    corresponding belief ascriptions.

Again, a theory that holds both that belief ascriptions are
interest-relative, and that some of the interest-relativity of knowledge
ascriptions is not explained by the interest-relativity of belief
ascriptions, will count as a version of non-doxastic IRI. I'm going to
defend a view from this class here.

In my @Weatherson2005-WEACWD I tried to motivate Doxastic IRI. It isn't
completely trivial to map my view onto the existing views in the
literature, but the idea was to renounce contextualism and all its empty
promises, and endorse a position that's usually known as 'strict
invariantism' about these classes of statements:

-   $S$ is justified in having credence $x$ in $p$;

-   If $S$ believes that $p$, she knows that $p$;

while holding that the interests of S are relevant to the truth of
statements from these classes:

-   $S$ believes that $p$;

-   $S$ justifiably believes that $p$;

-   $S$ knows that $p$.

But I didn't argue for all of that. What I argued for was Doxastic IRI
about ascriptions of justified belief, and I hinted that the same
arguments would generalise to knowledge ascriptions. I now think those
hints were mistaken, and want to defend Non-Doxastic IRI about knowledge
ascriptions.[^2] My change of heart has been prompted by cases like
those Jason @Stanley2005-STAKAP calls 'Ignorant High Stakes' cases.[^3]
But to see why these cases matter, it will help to start with why I
think some kind of IRI must be true.

Here's the plan of attack. In section 1, I'm going to argue that
knowledge plays an important role in decision theory. In particular,
I'll argue (a) that it is legitimate to write something onto a decision
table iff the decision maker knows it to be true, and (b) it is
legitimate to leave a possible state of the world off a decision table
iff the decision maker knows it not to obtain. I'll go on to argue that
this, plus some very plausible extra assumptions about the rationality
of certain possible choices, implies that knowledge is
interest-relative. In section 2 I'll summarise and extend the argument
from @Weatherson2005-WEACWD that belief is interest-relative. People who
are especially interested in the epistemology rather than the theory of
belief may skip this. But I think this material is important; most of
the examples of interest-relative knowledge in the literature can be
explained by the interest-relativity of belief. I used to think all such
cases could be explained. Section 3 describes why I no longer think
that. Reflections on cases like the Coraline example suggests that there
are coherence constraints on knowledge that go beyond the coherence
constraints on justified true belief. The scope of these constraints is,
I'll argue, interest-relative. So knowledge, unlike belief or justified
belief, has interest-relative defeaters. That's inconsistent with
Doxastic IRI, so Doxastic IRI is false.

## The Interest-Relativity of Knowledge

### The Struction of Decision Problems

Professor Dec is teaching introductory decision theory to her
undergraduate class. She is trying to introduce the notion of a dominant
choice. So she introduces the following problem, with two states, $S_1$
and $S_2$, and two choices, $C_1$ and $C_2$, as is normal for
introductory problems.

::: {.center}
  ------- -------- --------
           $S_1$    $S_2$
    $C_1$  -\$200   \$1000
    $C_2$  -\$100   \$1500
  ------- -------- --------
:::

She's hoping that the students will see that $C_1$ and $C_2$ are bets,
but $C_2$ is clearly the better bet. If $S_1$ is actual, then both bets
lose, but $C_2$ loses less money. If $S_2$ is actual, then both bets
win, but $C_2$ wins more. So $C_2$ is better. That analysis is clearly
wrong if the state is causally dependent on the choice, and
controversial if the states are evidentially dependent on the choices.
But Professor Dec has not given any reason for the students to think
that the states are dependent on the choices in either way, and in fact
the students don't worry about that kind of dependence.

That doesn't mean, however, that the students all adopt the analysis
that Professor Dec wants them to. One student, Stu, is particularly
unwilling to accept that $C_2$ is better than $C_1$. He thinks, on the
basis of his experience, that when more than \$1000 is on the line,
people aren't as reliable about paying out on bets. So while $C_1$ is
guaranteed to deliver \$1000 if $S_2$, if the agent bets on $C_2$, she
might face some difficulty in collecting on her money.

Given the context, i.e., that they are in an undergraduate decision
theory class, it seems that Stu has misunderstood the question that
Professor Dec intended to ask. But it is a little harder than it first
seems to specify just exactly what Stu's mistake is. It isn't that he
thinks Professor Dec has *misdescribed* the situation. It isn't that he
thinks the agent won't collect \$1500 if she chooses $C_2$ and is in
$S_2$. He just thinks that she *might* not be able to collect it, so the
expected payout might really be a little less than \$1500.

But Stu is not the only problem that Professor Dec has. She also has
trouble convincing Dom of the argument. He thinks there should be a
third state added, $S_3$. In $S_3$, there is a vengeful God who is about
to end the world, and take everyone who chose $C_1$ to heaven, while
sending everyone who chose $C_2$ to hell. Since heaven is better than
hell, $C_2$ does not dominate $C_1$; it is worse in $S_3$. If decision
theory is to be useful, we must say something about why we can leave
states like $S_3$ off the decision table.

So in order to teach decision theory, Professor Dec has to answer two
questions.[^4]

1.  What makes it legitimate to write something on the decision table,
    such as the '\$1500' we write in the bottom right cell of Dec's
    table?

2.  What makes it legitimate to leave something off a decision table,
    such as leaving Dom's state $S_3$ off the table?

Let's start with a simpler problem that helps with both questions. Alice
is out of town on a holiday, and she faces the following decision choice
concerning what to do with a token in her hand.

::: {.center}
  --------------------- -------------
             **Choice**  **Outcome**
     Put token on table  Win \$1000
    Put token in pocket  Win nothing
  --------------------- -------------
:::

This looks easy, especially if we've taken Professor Dec's class.
Putting the token on the table dominates putting the token in her
pocket. It returns \$1000, versus no gain. So she should put the token
on the table.

I've left Alice's story fairly schematic; let's fill in some of the
details. Alice is on holiday at a casino. It's a fair casino; the
probabilities of the outcomes of each of the games is just what you'd
expect. And Alice knows this. The table she's standing at is a roulette
table. The token is a chip from the casino worth \$1000. Putting the
token on the table means placing a bet. As it turns out, it means
placing a bet on the roulette wheel landing on 28. If that bet wins she
gets her token back and another token of the same value. There are many
other bets she could make, but Alice has decided not to make all but one
of them. Since her birthday is the 28$^{\text{th}}$, she is tempted to
put a bet on 28; that's the only bet she is considering. If she makes
this bet, the objective chance of her winning is $\frac{1}{38}$, and
she knows this. As a matter of fact she will win, but she doesn't know
this. (This is why the description in the table I presented above is
truthful, though frightfully misleading.) As you can see, the odds on
this bet are terrible. She should have a chance of winning around
$\frac{1}{2}$ to justify placing this bet.[^5] So the above table,
which makes it look like placing the bet is the dominant, and hence
rational, option, is misleading.

Just how is the table misleading though? It isn't because what is says
is false. If Alice puts the token on the table she wins \$1000; and if
she doesn't, she stays where she is. It isn't, or isn't just, that Alice
doesn't believe the table reflects what will happen if she places the
bet. As it turns out, Alice is smart, so she doesn't form beliefs about
chance events like roulette wheels. But even if she did, that wouldn't
change how misleading the table is. The table suggests that it is
rational for Alice to put the token on the table. In fact, that is
irrational. And it would still be irrational if Alice believes,
*irrationally*, that the wheel will land on 28.

A better suggestion is that the table is misleading because Alice
doesn't *know* that it accurately depicts the choice she faced. If she
did know that these were the outcomes to putting the token on the table
versus in her pocket, it seems it would be rational for her to put it on
the table. If we take it as tacit in a presentation of a decision
problem that the agent knows that the table accurately depicts the
outcomes of various choices in different states, then we can tell a
plausible story about what the miscommunication between Professor Dec
and her students was. Stu was assuming that if the agent wins \$1500,
she might not be able to easily collect. That is, he was assuming that
the agent does not know that she'll get \$1500 if she chooses $C_2$ and
is in state $S_2$. Professor Dec, if she's anything like other decision
theory professors, will have assumed that the agent did know exactly
that. And the miscommunication between Professor Dec and Dom also
concerns knowledge. When Dec wrote that table up, she was saying that
the agent knew that $S_1$ or $S_2$ obtained. And when she says it is
best to take dominating options, she means that it is best to take
options that one knows to have better outcomes. So here are the answers
to Stu and Dom's challenges.

1.  It is legitimate to write something on the decision table, such as
    the '\$1500' we write in the bottom right cell of Dec's table, iff
    the decision maker knows it to be true.

2.  It is legitimate to leave something off a decision table, such as
    leaving Dom's state $S_3$ off the table, iff the decision maker
    knows it not to obtain.

Perhaps those answers are not correct, but what we can clearly see by
reflecting on these cases is that the standard presentation of a
decision problem presupposes not just that the table states what will
happen, but the agent stands in some special doxastic relationship to
the information explicitly on the table (such as that Alice will get
\$1500 if $C_2$ and $S_2$) and implied by where the table ends (such as
that $S_3$ will not happen). Could that relationship be weaker than
knowledge? It's true that it is hard to come up with clear
counterexamples to the suggestion that the relationship is merely
justified true belief. But I think it is somewhat implausible to hold
that the standard presentation of an example merely presupposes that the
agent has a justified true belief that the table is correct, and does
not in addition know that the table is correct.

My reasons for thinking this are similar to one of the reasons Timothy
Williamson [@Williamson2000-WILKAI Ch. 9] gives for doubting that one's
evidence is all that one justifiably truly believes. To put the point in
Lewisian terms, it seems that knowledge is a much more *natural*
relation than justified true belief. And when ascribing contents,
especially contents of tacitly held beliefs, we should strongly prefer
to ascribe more rather than less natural contents.[^6]

So the 'special doxastic relationship' is not weaker than knowledge.
Could it be stronger? Could it be, for example, that the relationship is
certainty, or some kind of iterated knowledge? Plausibly in some
game-theoretic settings it is stronger -- it involves not just knowing
that the table is accurate, but knowing that the other player knows the
table is accurate. In some cases, the standard treatment of games will
require positing even more iterations of knowledge. For convenience, it
is sometimes explicitly stated that iterations continue indefinitely, so
each party knows the table is correct, and knows each party knows this,
and knows each party knows that, and knows each party knows *that*, and
so on. An early example of this in philosophy is in the work by David
@Lewis1969a on convention. But it is usually acknowledged (again in a
tradition extending back at least to Lewis) that only the first few
iterations are actually needed in any problem, and it seems a mistake to
attribute more iterations than are actually used in deriving solutions
to any particular game.

The reason that would be a mistake is that we want game theory, and
decision theory, to be applicable to real-life situations. There is very
little that we know, and know that we know, and know we know we know,
and so on indefinitely [@Williamson2000-WILKAI Ch. 4]. There is,
perhaps, even less that we are certain of. If we only could say that a
person is making a particular decision when they stand in these very
strong relationships to the parameters of the decision table, then
people will almost never be making the kinds of decision we study in
decision theory. Since decision theory and game theory are not meant to
be that impractical, I conclude that the 'special doxastic relationship'
cannot be that strong. It could be that in some games, the special
relationship will involve a few iterations of knowledge, but in decision
problems, where the epistemic states of others are irrelevant, even that
is unnecessary, and simple knowledge seems sufficient.

It might be argued here that we shouldn't expect to apply decision
theory directly to real-life problems, but only to idealised versions of
them, so it would be acceptable to, for instance, require that the
things we put in the table are, say, things that have probability
exactly 1. In real life, virtually nothing has probability 1. In an
idealisation, many things do. But to argue this way seems to involve
using 'idealisation' in an unnatural sense. There is a sense in which,
whenever we treat something with non-maximal probability as simply given
in a decision problem that we're ignoring, or abstracting away from,
some complication. But we aren't *idealising*. On the contrary, we're
modelling the agent as if they were irrationally certain in some things
which are merely very very probable.

So it's better to say that any application of decision theory to a
real-life problem will involve ignoring certain (counterfactual) logical
or metaphysical possibilities in which the decision table is not
actually true. But not any old abstraction will do. We can't ignore just
anything, at least not if we want a good model. Which abstractions are
acceptable? The response I've offered to Dom's challenge suggests an
answer to this: we can abstract away from any possibility in which
something the agent actually knows is false. I don't have a knock-down
argument that this is the best of all possible abstractions, but nor do
I know of any alternative answer to the question which abstractions are
acceptable which is nearly as plausible.

We might be tempted to say that we can abstract away from anything such
that the difference between its probability and 1 doesn't make a
difference to the ultimate answer to the decision problem. More
carefully, the idea would be that we can have the decision table
represent that $p$ iff $p$ is true and treating $\Pr(p)$ as 1 rather
than its actual value doesn't change what the agent should do. I think
this is the most plausible story one could tell about decision tables if
one didn't like the knowledge first story that I tell. But I also don't
think it works, because of cases like the following.

Luc is lucky; he's in a casino where they are offering better than fair
odds on roulette. Although the chance of winning any bet is , if Luc
bets \$10, and his bet wins, he will win \$400. (That's the only bet on
offer.) Luc, like Alice, is considering betting on 28. As it turns out,
28 won't come up, although since this is a fair roulette wheel, Luc
doesn't know this. Luc, like most agents, has a declining marginal
utility for money. He currently has \$1,000, and for any amount of money
$x$, Luc gets utility $u(x) = x^{\frac{1}{2}}$ out of having $x$. So
Luc's current utility (from money) is, roughly, 31.622. If he bets and
loses, his utility will be, roughly, 31.464. And if he bets and wins,
his utility will be, roughly, 37.417. So he stands to gain about 5.794,
and to lose about 0.159. So he stands to gain about 36.5 as much as he
stands to lose. Since the odds of winning are less than
$\frac{1}{36.5}$, his expected utility goes down if he takes the
bet, so he shouldn't take it. Of course, if the probability of losing
was 1, and not merely $\frac{37}{38}$, he shouldn't take the bet
too. Does that mean it is acceptable, in presenting Luc's decision
problem, to leave off the table any possibility of him winning, since he
won't win, and setting the probability of losing to 1 rather than
$\frac{37}{38}$ doesn't change the decision he should make? Of
course not; that would horribly misstate the situation Luc finds himself
in. It would misrepresent how sensitive Luc's choice is to his utility
function, and to the size of the stakes. If Luc's utility function was
$u(x) = x^{\frac{3}{4}}$, then he should take the bet. If his
utility function is unchanged, but the bet was \$1 against \$40, rather
than \$10 against \$400, he should take the bet. Leaving off the
possibility of winning hides these facts, and badly misrepresents Luc's
situation.

I've argued that the states we can 'leave off' a decision table are the
states that the agent knows not to obtain. The argument is largely by
elimination. If we can only leave off things that have probability 1,
then decision theory would be useless; but it isn't. If we say we can
leave off things if setting their probability at 1 is an accepable
idealisation, we need a theory of acceptable idealisations. If this is
to be a rival to my theory, the idealisation had better not be it's
acceptable to treat anything known as having probability 1. But the most
natural alternative idealisation badly misrepresents Luc's case. If we
say that what can be left off is not what's known not to obtain, but
what is, say, justifiably truly believed not to obtain, we need an
argument for why people would naturally use such an unnatural standard.
This doesn't even purport to be a conclusive argument, but these
considerations point me towards thinking that knowledge determines what
we can leave off.

I also cheated a little in making this argument. When I described Alice
in the casino, I made a few explicit comments about her information
states. And every time, I said that she *knew* various propositions. It
seemed plausible at the time that this is enough to think those
propositions should be incorporated into the table we use to represent
her decision. That's some evidence against the idea that more than
knowledge, perhaps iterated knowledge or certainty, is needed before we
add propositions to the decision table.

### From Decision Theory to Interest-Relativity

This way of thinking about decision problems offers a new perspective on
the issue of whether we should always be prepared to bet on what we
know.[^7] To focus intuitions, let's take a concrete case. Barry is
sitting in his apartment one evening when he hears a musician performing
in the park outside. The musician, call her Beth, is one of Barry's
favourite musicians, so the music is familiar to Barry. Barry is excited
that Beth is performing in his neighbourhood, and he decides to hurry
out to see the show. As he prepares to leave, a genie appears an offers
him a bet.[^8] If he takes the bet, and the musician is Beth, then the
genie will give Barry ten dollars. On the other hand, if the musician is
not Beth, he will be tortured in the fires of hell for a millenium.
Let's put Barry's options in table form.

::: {.center}
  ----------------- ---------------------- --------------------------
                     **Musician is Beth**   **Musician is not Beth**
       **Take Bet**        Win \$10          1000 years of torture
    **Decline Bet**       Status quo               Status quo
  ----------------- ---------------------- --------------------------
:::

Intuitively, it is extremely irrational for Barry to take the bet.
People do make mistakes about identifying musicians, even very familiar
musicians, by the strains of music that drift up from a park. It's not
worth risking a millenium of torture for \$10.

But it also seems that we've misstated the table. Before the genie
showed up, it seemed clear that Barry knew that the musician was Beth.
That was why he went out to see her perform. (If you don't think this is
true, make the sounds from the park clearer, or make it that Barry had
some prior evidence that Beth was performing which the sounds from the
park remind him of. It shouldn't be too hard to come up with an
evidential base such that (a) in normal circumstances we'd say Barry
knew who was performing, but (b) he shouldn't take this genie's bet.)
Now our decision tables should reflect the knowledge of the agent making
the decision. If Barry knows that the musician is Beth, then the second
column is one he knows will not obtain. So let's write the table in the
standard form.

::: {.center}
  ----------------- ---------------------- --
                     **Musician is Beth**  
       **Take Bet**        Win \$10        
    **Decline Bet**       Status quo       
  ----------------- ---------------------- --
:::

And it is clear what Barry's decision should be in this situation.
Taking the bet dominates declining it, and Barry should take dominating
options.

What has happened? It is incredibly clear that Barry should decline the
bet, yet here we have an argument that he should take the bet. If you
accept that the bet should be declined, then it seems to me that there
are three options available.

1.  Barry never knew that the musician was Beth.

2.  Barry did know that the musician was Beth, but this knowledge was
    destroyed by the genie's offer of the bet.

3.  States of the world that are known not to obtain should still be
    represented in decision problems, so taking the bet is not a
    dominating option.

The first option is basically a form of scepticism. If the take-away
message from the above discussion is that Barry doesn't know the
musician is Beth, we can mount a similar argument to show that he knows
next to nothing.[^9] And the third option would send us back into the
problems about interpreting and applying decision theory that we spent
the first few pages trying to get out of.

So it seems that the best solution here, or perhaps the least bad
solution, is to accept that knowledge is interest-relative. Barry did
know that the musician was Beth, but the genie's offer destroyed that
knowledge. When Barry was unconcerned with bets at extremely long odds
on whether the musician is Beth, he knows Beth is the musician. Now that
he is interested in those bets, he doesn't know that.[^10]

The argument here bears more than a passing resemblance to the arguments
in favour of interest-relativity that are made by Hawthorne, Stanley,
and Fantl and McGrath. But I think the focus on decision theory shows
how we can get to interest-relativity with very weak premises.[^11] In
particular, the only premises I've used to derive an interest-relative
conclusion are:

1.  Before the genie showed up, Barry knew the musician was Beth.

2.  It's rationally permissible, *in cases like Barry's*, to take
    dominating options.

3.  It's always right to model decision problems by including what the
    agent knows in the 'framework'. That is, our decision tables should
    include what the agent knows about the payoffs in different states,
    and leave off any state the agent knows not to obtain.

4.  It is rationally impermissible for Barry to take the genie's offered
    bet.

The second premise there is *much* weaker than the principles linking
knowledge and action defended in previous arguments for
interest-relativity. It isn't the claim that one can always act on what
one knows, or that one can only act on what one knows, or that knowledge
always (or only) provides reason to act. It's just the claim that in one
very specific type of situation, in particular when one has to make a
relatively simple bet, which affects nobody but the person making the
bet, it's rationally permissible to take a dominating option. In
conjunction with the third premise, it entails that *in those kind of
cases*, the fact that one knows taking the bet will lead to a better
outcome suffices for making acceptance of the bet rationally
permissible. It doesn't say anything about what else might or might not
make acceptance rationally permissible. It doesn't say anything about
what suffices for rationally permissibility in other kinds of cases,
such as cases where someone else's interests are at stake, or where
taking the bet might violate a deontological constraint, or any other
way in which real-life choices differ from the simplest decision
problems.[^12] It doesn't say anything about any other kind of
permissibility, e.g., moral permissibility. But it doesn't need to,
because we're only in the business of proving that there is *some*
interest-relativity to knowledge, and an assumption about practical
rationality in some range of cases suffices to prove that.[^13]

The case of Barry and Beth also bears some relationship to one of the
kinds of case that have motivated contextualism about knowledge. Indeed,
it has been widely noted in the literature on interest-relativity that
interest-relativity can explain away many of the puzzles that motivate
contextualism. And there are difficulties that face any contextualist
theory [@Weatherson2006-WEAQC]. So I prefer an *invariantist* form of
interest-relativity about knowledge. That is, my view is a form of
interest-relative-invariantism, or IRI.[^14]

Now everything I've said here leaves it open whether the
interest-relativity of knowledge is a natural and intuitive theory, or
whether it is a somewhat unhappy concession to difficulties that the
case of Barry and Beth raise. I think the former is correct, and
interest-relativity is fairly plausible on its own merits, but it would
be consistent with my broader conclusions to say that in fact the
interest-relative theory of knowledge is very implausible and
counterintuitive. If we said that, we could still justify the
interest-relative theory by noting that we have on our hands here a
paradoxical situation, and any option will be somewhat implausible. This
consideration has a bearing on how we should think about the role of
intuitions about cases, or principles, in arguments that knowledge is
interest-relative. Several critics of the view have argued that the view
is counter-intuitive, or that it doesn't accord with the reactions of
non-expert judges.[^15] In a companion paper, "Defending
Interest-Relative Invariantism", I note that those arguments usually
misconstrue what the consequences of interest-relative theories of
knowledge are. But even if they don't, I don't think there's any quick
argument that if interest-relativity is counter-intuitive, it is false.
After all, the only alternatives that seem to be open here are very
counter-intuitive.

Finally, it's worth noting that if Barry is rational, he'll stop (fully)
believing that the musician is Beth once the genie makes the offer.
Assuming the genie allows this, it would be very natural for Barry to
try to acquire more information about the singer. He might walk over to
the window to see if he can see who is performing in the park. So this
case leaves it open whether the interest-relativity of knowledge can be
explained fully by the interest-relativity of belief. I used to think it
could be; I no longer think that. To see why this is so, it's worth
rehearsing how the interest-relative theory of belief runs.

## The Interest-Relativity of Belief

### Interests and Functional Roles

The previous section was largely devoted to proving an existential
claim: there is *some* interest-relativity to knowledge. Or, if you
prefer, it proved a negative claim: the best theory of knowledge is
*not* interest-neutral. But this negative conclusion invites a
philosophical challenge: what is the best explanation of the
interest-relativity of knowledge? My answer is in two parts. Part of the
interest-relativity of knowledge comes from the interest-relativity of
belief, and part of it comes from the fact that interests generate
certain kinds of doxastic defeaters. It's the second part, the part that
is new to this paper, that makes the theory a version of non-doxastic
IRI.

Here's my theory of belief. $S$ believes that $p$ iff conditionalising
on $p$ doesn't change $S$'s answer to any relevant question. I'm using
'relevance' here in a non-technical sense; I say a lot more about how to
cash out the notion in my [-@Weatherson2005-WEACWD]. The key thing to
note is that relevance is interest-relative, so the theory of belief is
interest-relative. There is a bit more to say about what kind of
*questions* are important for this definition of belief. In part because
I've changed my mind a little bit on this since the earlier paper, I'll
spend a bit more time on it. The following four kinds of questions are
the most important.

-   How probable is $q$?

-   Is $q$ or $r$ more probable?

-   How good an idea is it to do $\phi$?

-   Is it better to do $\phi$ or $\psi$?

The theory of belief says that someone who believes that $p$doesn't
change their answer to any of these questions upon conditionalising on
$p$. Putting this formally, and making the restriction to relevant
questions explicit, we get the following theorems of our theory of
belief.[^16]

BAP

:   For all relevant $q, x$, if $p$ is believed then $\Pr(q) = x$ iff
    $\Pr(q | p) = x$.

BCP

:   For all relevant $q, r$, if $p$ is believed then
    $\Pr(q) \geq \Pr(r)$ iff $\Pr(q | p) \geq \Pr(r | p)$.

BAU

:   For all relevant $\phi, x$, if $p$ is believed then $U(\phi) = x$
    iff $U(\phi | p) = x$.

BCU

:   For all relevant $\phi, \psi$, if $p$ is believed then
    $U(\phi) \geq U(\psi)$ iff $U(\phi | p) \geq U(\psi | p)$.

In the earlier paper I focussed on **BAU** and **BCU**. But **BAP** and
**BCP** are important as well. Indeed, focussing on them lets us derive
a nice result.

Charlie is trying to figure out exactly what the probability of $p$ is.
That is, for any $x \in [0, 1]$, whether $\Pr(p) = x$ is a relevant
question. Now Charlie is well aware that $\Pr(p | p) = 1$. So unless
$\Pr(p) = 1$, Charlie will give a different answer to the questions *How
probable is p?* and *Given p, how probable is p?*. So unless Charlie
holds that $\Pr(p)$ is 1, she won't count as believing that $p$. One
consequence of this is that Charlie can't reason, "The probability of
$p$ is exactly 0.978, so $p$." That's all to the good, since that looks
like bad reasoning. And it looks like bad reasoning even though in some
circumstances Charlie can rationally believe propositions that she
(rationally) gives credence 0.978 to. Indeed, in some circumstances she
can rationally believe something *in virtue* of it being 0.978 probable.

That's because the reasoning in the previous paragraph assumes that
every question of the form *Is the probability of p equal to x?* is
relevant. In practice, fewer questions than that will be relevant. Let's
say that the only questions relevant to Charlie are of the form *What is
the probability of $p$ to one decimal place?*. And assume that no other
questions become relevant in the course of her inquiry into this
question.[^17] Charlie decides that to the first decimal place,
$\Pr(p) = 1.0$, i.e., $\Pr(p) > 0.95$. That is compatible with simply
believing that $p$. And that seems right; if for practical purposes, the
probability of $p$ is indistinguishable from 1, then the agent is
confident enough in $p$ to believe it.

So there are some nice features of this theory of belief. Indeed, there
are several reasons to believe it. It is, I have argued, the best
functionalist account of belief. I'm not going to argue for
functionalism about the mind, since the argument would take at least a
book. (The book in question might look a lot like @DBMJackson2007.) But
I do think functionalism is true, and so the best functionalist theory
of belief is the best theory of belief.

The argument for this theory of belief in my [-@Weatherson2005-WEACWD]
rested heavily on the flaws of rival theories. We can see those flaws by
looking at a tension that any theory of the relationship between belief
and credence must overcome. Each of the following three principles seems
to be plausible.

1.  If $S$ has a greater credence in $p$ than in $q$, and she believes
    $q$, then she believes $p$ as well; and if her credences in both $p$
    and $q$ are rational, and her belief in $q$ is rational, then so is
    her belief in $p$.

2.  If $S$ rationally believes $p$ and rationally believes $q$, then it
    is open to her to rationally believe $p \wedge q$ without changing
    her credences.

3.  $S$ can rationally believe $p$ while having credence of less than 1
    in $p$.

But these three principles, together with some principles that are
genuinely uncontroversial, entail an absurd result. By 3, there is some
$p$ such that *Cr*$(p) = x < 1$, and $p$ is believed. (*Cr* is the
function from any proposition to our agent's credence in that
propositions.) Let $S$ know that a particular fair lottery has $l$
tickets, where $l > \frac{1}{1-x}$. The uncontroversial principle
we'll use is that in such a case $S$'s credence that any given ticket
will lose should be $\frac{l-1}{l}$. Since $\frac{l-1}{l} > x$,
it follows by 1 that $S$ believes of each ticket that it will lose.
Since her credences are rational, these beliefs are rational. By
repeated applications of 2 then, the agent can rationally believe that
each ticket will lose. But she rationally gives credence 0 to the
proposition that each ticket will lose. So by 1 she can rationally
believe any proposition in which her credence is greater than 0. This is
absurd.[^18]

I won't repeat all the gory details here, but one of the consequences of
the discussion in @Weatherson2005-WEACWD was that we could hold on to 3,
and onto restricted versions of 1 and 2. In particular, if we restricted
1 and 2 to relevant propositions (in some sense) they became true,
although the unrestricted version is false. A key part of the argument
of the earlier paper was that this was a better option than the more
commonly taken option of holding on to unrestricted versions of 1 and 3,
at the cost of abandoning 2 even in clear cases. But one might wonder
why I'm holding so tightly on to 3. After all, there is a functionalist
argument that 3 is false.

A key functional role of credences is that if an agent has credence $x$
in $p$ she should be prepared to buy a bet that returns 1 util if $p$,
and 0 utils otherwise, iff the price is no greater than $p$ utils. A key
functional role of belief is that if an agent believes $p$, and
recognises that $\phi$ is the best thing to do given $p$, then she'll do
$\phi$. Given $p$, it's worth paying any price up to 1 util for a bet
that pays 1 util if $p$. So believing $p$ seems to mean being in a
functional state that is like having credence 1 in $p$.

But this argument isn't quite right. If we spell out more carefully what
the functional roles of credence and belief are, a loophole emerges in
the argument that belief implies credence 1. The interest-relative
theory of belief turns out to exploit that loophole. What's the
difference, in functional terms, between having credence $x$ in $p$, and
having credence $x + \varepsilon$ in $p$? Well, think again about the
bet that pays 1 util if $p$, and 0 utils otherwise. And imagine that bet
is offered for $x + \frac{\varepsilon}{2}$ utils. The person whose
credence is $x$ will decline the offer; the person whose credence is
$x + \varepsilon$ will accept it. Now it will usually be that no such
bet is on offer.[^19] No matter; as long as one agent is *disposed* to
accept the offer, and the other agent is not, that suffices for a
difference in credence.

The upshot of that is that differences in credences might be, indeed
usually will be, constituted by differences in dispositions concerning
how to act in choice situations far removed from actuality. I'm not
usually in a position of having to accept or decline a chance to buy a
bet for 0.9932 utils that the local coffee shop is currently open. Yet
whether I would accept or decline such a bet matters to whether my
credence that the coffee shop is open is 0.9931 or 0.9933. This isn't a
problem with the standard picture of how credences work. It's just an
observation that the high level of detail embedded in the picture relies
on taking the constituents of mental states to involve many
dispositions.

One of the crucial features of the theory of belief I'm defending is
that what an agent believes is in general *insensitive* to such abtruse
dispositions, although it is very sensitive to dispositions about
practical matters. It's true that if I believe that $p$, and I'm
rational enough, I'll act as if $p$ is true. Is it also true that if I
believe $p$, I'm disposed to act as if $p$ is true no matter what
choices are placed in front of me? The theory being defended here says
no, and that seems plausible. As we say in the case of Barry and Beth,
Barry can believe that $p$, but be disposed to *lose that belief* rather
than act on it if odd choices, like that presented by the genie, emerge.

This suggests the key difference between belief and credence 1. For a
rational agent, a credence of 1 in $p$ means that the agent is disposed
to answer a wide range of questions the same way she would answer that
question conditional on $p$. That follows from the fact that these four
principles are trivial theorems of the orthodox theory of expected
utility.[^20]

C1AP

:   For all $q, x$, if $\Pr(p) = 1$ then $\Pr(q) = x$ iff
    $\Pr(q | p) = x$.

C1CP

:   For all $q, r$, if $\Pr(p) = 1$ then $\Pr(q) \geq \Pr(r)$ iff
    $\Pr(q | p) \geq \Pr(r | p)$.

C1AU

:   For all $\phi, x$, if $\Pr(p) = 1$ then $U(\phi) = x$ iff
    $U(\phi | p) = x$.

C1CP

:   For all $\phi, \psi$, if $\Pr(p) = 1$ then $U(\phi) \geq U(\psi)$
    iff $U(\phi | p) \geq U(\psi | p)$.

Those look a lot like the theorems of the theory of belief that we
discussed above. But note that these claims are *unrestricted*, whereas
in the theory of belief, we restricted attention to relevant actions,
propositions, utilities and probabilities. That turns out to be the
difference between belief and credence 1. Since that difference is
interest-relative, belief is interest-relative.

I used to think that that was all the interest-relativity we needed in
epistemology. Now I don't, for reasons that I'll go through in section
three. (Readers who care more about the theory of knowledge than the
theory of belief may want to skip ahead to that section.) But first I
want to clean up some loose ends in the acount of belief.

### Two Caveats

The theory sketched so far seems to me right in the vast majority of
cases. It fits in well with a broadly functionalist view of the mind,
and it handles difficult cases, like that of Charlie, nicely. But it
needs to be supplemented and clarified a little to handle some other
difficult cases. In this section I'm going to supplement the theory a
little to handle what I call 'impractical propositions', and say a
little about morally loaded action.

Jones has a false geographic belief: he believes that Los Angeles is
west of Reno.[^21] This isn't because he's ever thought about the
question. Rather, he's just disposed to say "Of course" if someone asks,
"Is Los Angeles west of Reno?" That disposition has never been
triggered, because no one's ever bothered to ask him this. Call the
proposition that Los Angeles is west of Reno $p$.

The theory given so far will get the right result here: Jones does
believe that $p$. But it gets the right answer for an odd reason. Jones,
it turns out, has very little interest in American geography right now.
He's a schoolboy in St Andrews, Scotland, getting ready for school and
worried about missing his schoolbus. There's no inquiry he's currently
engaged in for which $p$ is even close to relevant. So conditionalising
on $p$ doesn't change the answer to any inquiry he's engaged in, but
that would be true no matter what his credence in $p$ is.

There's an immediate problem here. Jones believes $p$, since
conditionalising on $p$ doesn't change the answer to any relevant
inquiry. But for the very same reason, conditionalising on $\neg p$
doesn't change the answer to any relevant inquiry. It seems our theory
has the bizarre result that Jones believes $\neg p$ as well. That is
both wrong and unfair. We end up attributing inconsistent beliefs to
Jones simply because he's a harried schoolboy who isn't currently
concerned with the finer points of geography of the American southwest.

Here's a way out of this problem in four relatively easy steps.[^22]
First, we say that which questions are relevant questions is not just
relative to the agent's interests, but also relevant to the proposition
being considered. A question may be relevant relative to $p$, but not
relative to $q$. Second, we say that relative to $p$, the question of
whether $p$ is more probable than $\neg p$ is a relevant question.
Third, we infer from that that an agent only believes $p$ if their
credence in $p$ is greater than their credence in $\neg p$, i.e., if
their credence in $p$ is greater than $\frac{1}{2}$. Finally, we say
that when the issue is whether the subject believes that $p$, the
question of whether $p$ is more probable than $\neg p$ is not only
relevant on its own, but it stays being a relevant question conditional
on any $q$ that is relevant to the subject. In the earlier paper
[@Weatherson2005-WEACWD] I argue that this solves the problem raised by
impractical propositions in a smooth and principled way.

That's the first caveat. The second is one that isn't discussed in the
earlier paper. If the agent is merely trying to get the best outcome for
themselves, then it makes sense to represent them as a utility
maximiser. And within orthodox decision theory, it is easy enough to
talk about, and reason about, conditional utilities. That's important,
because conditional utilities play an important role in the theory of
belief offered at the start of this section. But if the agent faces
moral constraints on her decision, it isn't always so easy to think
about conditional utilities.

When agents have to make decisions that might involve them causing harm
to others if certain propositions turn out to be true, then I think it
is best to supplement orthodox decision theory with an extra assumption.
The assumption is, roughly, that for choices that may harm others,
expected value is absolute value. It's easiest to see what this means
using a simple case of three-way choice. The kind of example I'm
considering here has been used for (slightly) different purposes by
Frank @Jackson1991.

The agent has to do $\varphi$ or $\psi$. Failure to do either of these
will lead to disaster, and is clearly unacceptable. Either $\varphi$ or
$\psi$ will avert the disaster, but one of them will be moderately
harmful and the other one will not. The agent has time before the
disaster to find out which of $\varphi$ and $\psi$ is harmful and which
is not for a nominal cost. Right now, her credence that $\varphi$ is the
harmful one is, quite reasonably, $\frac{1}{2}$. So the agent has
three choices:

-   Do $\varphi$;

-   Do $\psi$; or

-   Wait and find out which one is not harmful, and do it.

We'll assume that other choices, like letting the disaster happen, or
finding out which one is harmful and doing it, are simply out of
consideration. In any case, they are clearly dominated options, so the
agent shouldn't do them. Let $p$ be the propostion that $\varphi$ is the
harmful one. Then if we assume the harm in question has a disutility of
10, and the disutility of waiting to act until we know which is the
harmful one is 1, the values of the possible outcomes are as follows:

::: {.center}
  --------------------------- ----- ----------
                               $p$   $\neg p$
             **Do $\varphi$**  -10      0
                **Do $\psi$**   0      -10
    Find out which is harmful  -1       -1
  --------------------------- ----- ----------
:::

Given that $Pr(p) = \frac{1}{2}$, it's easy to compute that the
expected value of doing either $\varphi$ or $\psi$ is -5, while the
expected value of finding out which is harmful is -1, so the agent
should find out which thing is to be done before acting. So far most
consequentialists would agree, and so probably would most
non-consequentialists for most ways of fleshing out the abstract example
I've described.[^23]

But most consequentialists would also say something else about the
example that I think is not exactly true. Just focus on the column in
the table above where $p$ is true. In that column, the highest value, 0,
is alongside the action *Do* $\psi$. So you might think that conditional
on $p$, the agent should do $\psi$. That is, you might think the
conditional expected value of doing $\psi$, conditional on $p$ being
true, is 0, and that's higher than the conditional expected value of any
other act, conditional on $p$. If you thought that, you'd certainly be
in agreement with the orthodox decision-theoretic treatment of this
problem.

In the abstract statement of the situation above, I said that one of the
options would be *harmful*, but I didn't say who it would be harmful to.
I think this matters. I think what I called the orthodox treatment of
the situation is correct when the harm accrues to the person making the
decision. But when the harm accrues to another person, particularly when
it accrues to a person that the agent has a duty of care towards, then I
think the orthodox treatment isn't quite right.

My reasons for this go back to Jackson's original discussion of the
puzzle. Let the agent be a doctor, the actions $\varphi$ and $\psi$ be
her prescribing different medication to a patient, and the harm a severe
allergic reaction that the patient will have to one of the medications.
Assume that she can run a test that will tell her which medication the
patient is allergic to, but the test will take a day. Assume that the
patient will die in a month without either medication; that's the
disaster that must be averted. And assume that the patient is is some
discomfort that either medication would relieve; that's the small cost
of finding out which medication is risk. Assume finally that there is no
chance the patient will die in the day it takes to run the test, so the
cost of running the test is really nominal.

A good doctor in that situation will find out which medication the
patient is allergic to before ascribing either medicine. It would be
*reckless* to ascribe a medicine that is unnecessary and that the
patient might be allergic to. It is worse than reckless if the patient
is actually allergic to the medicine prescribed, and the doctor harms
the patient. But even if she's lucky and prescribes the 'right'
medication, the recklessness remains. It was still, it seems, the wrong
thing for her to do.

All of that is in Jackson's discussion of the case, though I'm not sure
he'd agree with the way I'm about the incorporate these ideas into the
formal decision theory. Even under the assumption that $p$, prescribing
$\psi$ is still wrong, because it is reckless. That should be
incorporated into the values we ascribe to different actions in
different circumstances. The way I do it is to associate the value of
each action, in each circumstance, with its actual expected value. So
the decision table for the doctor's decision looks something like this.

::: {.center}
  --------------------------- ----- ----------
                               $p$   $\neg p$
             **Do $\varphi$**  -5       -5
                **Do $\psi$**  -5       -5
    Find out which is harmful  -1       -1
  --------------------------- ----- ----------
:::

In fact, the doctor is making a decision under certainty. She knows that
the value of prescribing either medicine is -5, and the value of running
the tests is -1, so she should run the tests.

In general, when an agent has a duty to maximise the expected value of
some quantity $Q$, then the value that goes into the agent's decision
table in a cell is *not* the value of $Q$ in the world-action pair the
agent represents. Rather, it's the expected value of $Q$ given that
world-action pair. In situations like this one where the relevant facts
(e.g., which medicine the patient is allergic to) don't affect the
evidence the agent has, the decision is a decision under *certainty*.
This is all as things should be. When you have obligations that are
drawn in terms of the expected value of a variable, the actual values of
that variable cease to be directly relevant to the decision problem.

Similar morals carry across to theories that offer a smaller role to
expected utility in determining moral value. In particular, it's often
true that decisions where it is uncertain what course of action will
produce the best outcome might still, in the morally salient sense, be
decisions under certainty. That's because the uncertainty doesn't impact
how we should weight the different possible outcomes, as in orthodox
utility theory, but how we should value them. That's roughly what I
think is going on in cases like this one, which Jessica Brown has argued
are problematic for the epistemological theories John Hawthorne and
Jason Stanley have recently been defending.[^24]

> A student is spending the day shadowing a surgeon. In the morning he
> observes her in clinic examining patient A who has a diseased left
> kidney. The decision is taken to remove it that afternoon. Later, the
> student observes the surgeon in theatre where patient A is lying
> anaesthetised on the operating table. The operation hasn't started as
> the surgeon is consulting the patient's notes. The student is puzzled
> and asks one of the nurses what's going on:
>
> **Student**: I don't understand. Why is she looking at the patient's
> records? She was in clinic with the patient this morning. Doesn't she
> even know which kidney it is?
>
> **Nurse**: Of course, she knows which kidney it is. But, imagine what
> it would be like if she removed the wrong kidney. She shouldn't
> operate before checking the patient's records. [@Brown2008-BROKAP
> 1144-1145]

It is tempting, but for reasons I've been going through here mistaken,
to represent the surgeon's choice as follows. Let **Left** mean the left
kidney is diseased, and **Right** mean the right kidney is diseased.

::: {.center}
  ------------------------- ----------------- -----------------
                                **Left**          **Right**
     **Remove left kidney**        $1$              $-1$
    **Remove right kidney**       $-1$               $1$
            **Check notes**  $1-\varepsilon$   $1-\varepsilon$
  ------------------------- ----------------- -----------------
:::

Here $\varepsilon$ is the trivial but non-zero cost of checking the
chart. Given this table, we might reason that since the surgeon knows
that she's in the left column, and removing the left kidney is the best
option in that column, she should remove the left kidney rather than
checking the notes.

But that reasoning assumes that the surgeon does not have any epistemic
obligations over and above her duty to maximise expected utility. And
that's very implausible. It's totally implausible on a
non-consequentialist moral theory. A non-consequentialist may think that
some people have just the same obligations that the consequentialist
says they have -- legislators are frequently mentioned as an example --
but surely they wouldn't think *surgeons* are in this category. And even
a consequentialist who thinks that surgeons have special obligations in
terms of their institutional role should think that the surgeon's
obligations go above and beyond the obligation every agent has to
maximise expected utility.

It's not clear exactly what the obligation the surgeon has. Perhaps it
is an obligation to not just know which kidney to remove, but to know
this on the basis of evidence she has obtained while in the operating
theatre. Or perhaps it is an obligation to make her belief about which
kidney to remove as sensitive as possible to various possible scenarios.
Before she checked the chart, this counterfactual was false: *Had she
misremembered which kidney was to be removed, she would have a true
belief about which kidney was to be removed.* Checking the chart makes
that counterfactual true, and so makes her belief that the left kidney
is to be removed a little more sensitive to counterfactual
possibilities.

However we spell out the obligation, it is plausible given what the
nurse says that the surgeon has some such obligation. And it is
plausible that the 'cost' of violating this obligation, call it $\delta$
is greater than the cost of checking the notes. So here is the decision
table the surgeon faces.

::: {.center}
  ------------------------- ----------------- -----------------
                                **Left**          **Right**
     **Remove left kidney**    $1-\delta$        $-1-\delta$
    **Remove right kidney**    $-1-\delta$       $1-\delta$
            **Check notes**  $1-\varepsilon$   $1-\varepsilon$
  ------------------------- ----------------- -----------------
:::

And it isn't surprising, or a problem for an interest-relative theory of
knowledge or belief, that the surgeon should check the notes, even if
she believes *and knows* that the left kidney is the diseased one.

## Interest-Relative Defeaters

As I said at the top, I've changed my view from Doxastic IRI to
Non-Doxastic IRI. The change of heart is occasioned by cases like the
following, where the agent is mistaken, and hence ignorant, about the
odds at which she is offered a bet on $p$. In fact the odds are much
longer than she thinks. Relative to what she stands to win, the stakes
are too high.

### The Coraline Example

The problem for Doxastic IRI arises because of cases like that of
Coraline. Here's what we're going to stipulate about Coraline.

-   She knows that $p$ and $q$ are independent, so her credence in any
    conjunction where one conjunct is a member of $\{p,  \neg p\}$ and
    the other is a member of $\{q, \neg q\}$ will be the product of her
    credences in the conjuncts.

-   Her credence in $p$ is 0.99, just as the evidence supports.

-   Her credence in $q$ is also 0.99. This is unfortunate, since the
    rational credence in $q$ given her evidence is 0.01.

-   The only relevant question for her which is sensitive to $p$ is
    whether to take or decline a bet with the following payoff
    structure.[^25] (Assume that the marginal utility of money is close
    enough to constant that expected dollar returns correlate more or
    less precisely with expected utility returns.)

::: {.center}
  ----------------- ------------------ ----------------------- --------------
                     **$p \wedge q$**   **$p \wedge \neg q$**   **$\neg p$**
       **Take bet**        100                    1                 1000
    **Decline bet**         0                     0                  0
  ----------------- ------------------ ----------------------- --------------
:::

As can be easily computed, the expected utility of taking the bet given
her credences is positive, it is just over \$89. And Coraline takes the
bet. She doesn't compute the expected utility, but she is sensitive to
it.[^26] That is, had the expected utility given her credences been
close to 0, she would have not acted until she made a computation. But
from her perspective this looks like basically a free \$100, so she
takes it. Happily, this all turns out well enough, since $p$ is true.
But it was a dumb thing to do. The expected utility of taking the bet
given her evidence is negative, it is a little under -\$8. So she isn't
warranted, given her evidence, in taking the bet.

### What Coraline Knows and What She Believes

Assume, for *reductio*, that Coraline knows that $p$. Then the choice
she faces looks like this.

::: {.center}
  ----------------- --------- --------------
                     **$q$**   **$\neg q$**
       **Take bet**    100          1
    **Decline bet**     0           0
  ----------------- --------- --------------
:::

Since taking the bet dominates declining the bet, she should take the
bet if this is the correct representation of her situation. She
shouldn't take the bet, so by *modus tollens*, that can't be the correct
representation of her situation. If she knew $p$, that would be the
correct representation of her situation. So, again by *modus tollens*,
she doesn't know $p$.

Now let's consider three possible explanations of why she doesn't know
that $p$.

1.  She doesn't have enough evidence to know that $p$, independent of
    the practical stakes.

2.  In virtue of the practical stakes, she doesn't believe that $p$;

3.  In virtue of the practical stakes, she doesn't justifiably believe
    that $p$, although she does actually believe it.

4.  In virtue of the practical stakes, she doesn't know that $p$,
    although she does justifiably believe it.

I think option 1 is implausibly sceptical, at least if applied to all
cases like Coraline's. I've said that the probability of $p$ is 0.99,
but it should be clear that all that matters to generating a case like
this is that $p$ is not completely certain. Unless knowledge requires
certainty, we'll be able to generate Coraline-like cases where there is
sufficient evidence for knowledge. So that's ruled out.

Option 2 is basically what the Doxastic IRI theorist has to say. If
Coraline has enough evidence to know $p$, but doesn't know $p$ due to
practical stakes, then the Doxastic IRI theorist is committed to saying
that the practical stakes block *belief* in $p$. That's the Doxastic IRI
position; stakes matter to knowledge because they matter to belief.

But that's also an implausible description of Coraline's situation. She
is very confident that $p$. Her confidence is grounded in the evidence
in the right way. She is insensitive in her actual deliberations to the
difference between her evidence for $p$ and evidence that guarantees
$p$. She would become sensitive to that difference if someone offered
her a bet that she knew was a 1000-to-1 bet on $p$, but she doesn't know
that's what is on offer. In short, there is no difference between her
unconditional attitudes, and her attitudes conditional on $p$, when it
comes to any live question. That's enough, I think, for belief. So she
believes that $p$. And that's bad news for the Doxastic IRI theorist;
since it means here that stakes matter to knowledge without mattering to
belief. I conclude, reluctantly, that Doxastic IRI is false.

### Stakes as Defeaters

That still leaves two options remaining, what I've called options 3 and
4 above. Option 3, if suitably generalised, says that knowledge is
practically sensitive because the justification condition on belief is
practically sensitive. Option 4 says that practical considerations
impact knowledge directly. As I read them, Jeremy Fantl and Matthew
McGrath defend a version of Option 3. In the next and last subsection,
I'll argue against that position. But first I want to sketch what a
position like option 4 would look like.

Knowledge, unlike justification, requires a certain amount of internal
coherence among mental states. Consider the following story from David
Lewis:

> I speak from experience as the repository of a mildly inconsistent
> corpus. I used to think that Nassau Street ran roughly east-west; that
> the railroad nearby ran roughly north-south; and that the two were
> roughly parallel. [@Lewis1982c 436]

I think in that case that Lewis doesn't know that Nassau Street runs
roughly east-west. (From here on, call the proposition that Nassau
Street runs roughly east-west $N$.) If his belief that it does was
acquired and sustained in a suitably reliable way, then he may well have
a justified belief that $N$. But the lack of coherence with the rest of
his cognitive system, I think, defeats any claim to knowledge he has.

Coherence isn't just a requirement on belief; other states can cohere or
be incoherent. Assume Lewis corrects the incoherence in his beliefs, and
drops the belief that Nassau Street the railway are roughly parallel.
Still, if Lewis believed that $N$, preferred doing $\varphi$ to doing
$\psi$ conditional on $N$, but actually preferred doing $\psi$ to doing
$\varphi$, his cognitive system would also be in tension. That tension
could, I think, be sufficient to defeat a claim to know that $N$.

And it isn't just a requirement on actual states; it can be a
requirement on rational states. Assume Lewis believed that $N$,
preferred doing $\varphi$ to doing $\psi$ conditional on $N$, and
preferred doing $\varphi$ to doing $\psi$, but should have preferred
doing $\psi$ to doing $\varphi$ given his interests. Then I think the
fact that the last preference is irrational, plus the fact that were it
corrected there would be incoherence in his cognitive states defeats the
claim to know that $N$.

A concrete example of this helps make clear why such a view is
attractive, and why it faces difficulties. Assume there is a bet that
wins \$2 if $N$, and loses \$10 if not. Let $\varphi$ be taking that
bet, and $\psi$ be declining it. Assume Lewis shouldn't take that bet;
he doesnt have enough evidence to do so. Then he clearly doesn't know
that $N$. If he knew that $N$, $\varphi$ would dominate $\psi$, and
hence be rational. But it isn't, so $N$ isn't known. And that's true
whether Lewis's preferences between $\varphi$ and $\psi$ are rational or
irrational.

Attentive readers will see where this is going. Change the bet so it
wins a penny if $N$, and loses \$1,000 if not. Unless Lewis's evidence
that $N$ is incredibly strong, he shouldn't take the bet. So, by the
same reasoning, he doesn't know that $N$. And we're back saying that
knowledge requires incredibly strong evidence. The solution, I say, is
to put a pragmatic restriction on the kinds of incoherence that matter
to knowledge. Incoherence with respect to irrelevant questions, such as
whether to bet on $N$ at extremely long odds, doesn't matter for
knowledge. Incoherence (or coherence obtained only through
irrationality) does. The reason, I think, that Non-Doxastic IRI is true
is that this coherence-based defeater is sensitive to practical
interests.

The string of cases about Lewis and $N$ has ended up close to the
Coraline example. We already concluded that Coraline didn't know $p$.
Now we have a story about why - belief that $p$ doesn't cohere
sufficiently well with what she should believe, namely that it would be
wrong to take the bet. If all that is correct, just one question
remains: does this coherence-based defeater also defeat Coraline's claim
to have a justified belief that $p$? I say it does not, for three
reasons.

First, her attitude towards $p$ tracks the evidence perfectly. She is
making no mistakes with respect to $p$. She is making a mistake with
respect to $q$, but not with respect to $p$. So her attitude towards
$p$, i.e. belief, is justified.

Second, talking about beliefs and talking about credences are simply two
ways of modelling the very same things, namely minds. If the agent both
has a credence 0.99 in $p$, and believes that $p$, these are not two
different states. Rather, there is one state of the agent, and two
different ways of modelling it. So it is implausible to apply different
valuations to the state depending on which modelling tools we choose to
use. That is, it's implausible to say that while we're modelling the
agent with credences, the state is justified, but when we change tools,
and start using beliefs, the state is unjustified. Given this outlook on
beliefs and credences, it is natural to say that her belief is
justified. Natural, but not compulsory, for reasons Jeremy Fantl pointed
out to me.[^27] We don't want a metaphysics on which persons and
philosophers are separate entities. Yet we can say that someone is a
good person but a bad philosopher. Normative statuses can differ
depending on which property of a thing we are considering. That suggests
it is at least coherent to say that one and the same state is a good
credence but a bad belief. But while this may be coherent, I don't think
it is well motivated, and it is natural to have the evaluations go
together.

Third, we don't *need* to say that Coraline's belief in $p$ is
unjustified in order to preserve other nice theories, in the way that we
do need to say that she doesn't know $p$ in order to preserve a nice
account of how we understand decision tables. It's this last point that
I think Fantl and McGrath, who say that the belief is unjustified, would
reject. So let's conclude with a look at their arguments.

### Fantl and McGrath on Interest-Relativity

Fantl and McGrath's argue for the principle (JJ), which entails that
Coraline is not justified in believing $p$.

(JJ)

:   If you are justified in believing that $p$, then $p$ is warranted
    enough to justify you in $\varphi$-ing, for any $\varphi$.
    [@FantlMcGrath2009 99]

In practice, what this means is that there can't be a salient
$p, \varphi$ such that:

-   The agent is justified in believing $p$;

-   The agent is not warranted in doing $\varphi$; but

-   If the agent had more evidence for $p$, and nothing else, the agent
    would be be warranted in doing $\varphi$.

That is, once you've got enough evidence, or warrant, for justified
belief in $p$, then you've got enough evidence for $p$ as matters for
any decision you face. This seems intuitive, and Fantl and McGrath back
up its intuitiveness with some nicely drawn examples. But I think it is
false, and the Coraline example shows it is false. Coraline isn't
justified in taking the bet, and is justified in believing $p$, but more
evidence for $p$ would suffice for taking the bet. So Coraline's case
shows that (JJ) is false. But there are a number of possible objections
to that position. I'll spend the rest of this section, and this paper,
going over them.[^28]

*Objection*: The following argument shows that Coraline is not in fact
justified in believing that $p$.

1.  $p$ entails that Coraline should take the bet, and Coraline knows
    this.

2.  If $p$ entails something, and Coraline knows this, and she
    justifiably believes $p$, she is in a position to justifiably
    believe the thing entailed.

3.  Coraline is not in a position to justifiably believe that she should
    take the bet.

4.  So, Coraline does not justifiably believe that $p$

*Reply*: The problem here is that premise 1 is false. What's true is
that $p$ entails that Coraline will be better off taking the bet than
declining it. But it doesn't follow that she should take the bet.
Indeed, it isn't actually true that she should take the bet, even though
$p$ is actually true. Not just is the entailment claim false, the world
of the example is a counterinstance to it.

It might be controversial to use this very case to reject premise 1. But
the falsity of premise 1 should be clear on independent grounds. What
$p$ entails is that Coraline will be best off by taking the bet. But
there are lots of things that will make me better off that I shouldn't
do. Imagine I'm standing by a roulette wheel, and the thing that will
make me best off is betting heavily on the number than will actually
come up. It doesn't follow that I should do that. Indeed, I should not
do it. I shouldn't place any bets at all, since all the bets have a
highly negative expected return.

In short, all $p$ entails is that taking the bet will have the best
consequences. Only a very crude kind of consequentialism would identify
what I should do with what will have the best returns, and that crude
consequentialism isn't true. So $p$ doesn't entail that Coraline should
take the bet. So premise 1 is false.

*Objection*: Even though $p$ doesn't *entail* that Coraline should take
the bet, it does provide inductive support for her taking the bet. So if
she could justifiably believe $p$, she could justifiably (but
non-deductively) infer that she should take the bet. Since she can't
justifiably infer that, she isn't justified in taking the bet.

*Reply*: The inductive inference here looks weak. One way to make the
inductive inference work would be to deduce from $p$ that taking the bet
will have the best outcomes, and infer from that that the bet should be
taken. But the last step doesn't even look like a reliable ampliative
inference. The usual situation is that the best outcome comes from
taking an *ex ante* unjustifiable risk.

It may seem better to use $p$ combined with the fact that conditional on
$p$, taking the bet has the highest *expected* utility. But actually
that's still not much of a reason to take the bet. Think again about
cases, completely normal cases, where the action with the best outcome
is an *ex ante* unjustifiable risk. Call that action $\varphi$, and let
$B \varphi$ be the proposition that $\varphi$ has the best outcome. Then
$B \varphi$ is true, and conditional on $B \varphi$, $\varphi$ has an
excellent expected return. But doing $\varphi$ is still running a dumb
risk. Since these kinds of cases are normal, it seems it will very often
be the case that this form of inference leads from truth to falsity. So
it's not a reliable inductive inference.

*Objection*: In the example, Coraline isn't just in a position to
justifiably believe $p$, she is in a position to *know* that she
justifiably believes it. And from the fact that she justifiably believes
$p$, and the fact that if $p$, then taking the bet has the best option,
she can infer that she should take the bet.

*Reply*: It's possible at this point that we get to a dialectical
impasse. I think this inference is non-deductive, because I think the
example we're discussing here is one where the premises are true and the
conclusion false. Presumably someone who doesn't like the example will
think that it is a good deductive inference.

Having said that, the more complicated example at the end of
@Weatherson2005-WEACWD was designed to raise the same problem without
the consequence that if $p$ is true, the bet is sure to return a
positive amount. In that example, conditionalising on $p$ means the bet
has a positive expected return, but still possibly a negative return.
But in that case (JJ) still failed. If accepting there are cases where
an agent justifiably believes $p$, and hence justifiably believes taking
the bet will return the best outcome, and knows all this, but still
can't rationally bet on $p$ is too much to accept, that more complicated
example might be more persuasive. Otherwise, I concede that someone who
believes (JJ) and thinks rational agents can use it in their reasoning
will not think that a particular case is a counterexample to (JJ).

*Objection*:If Coraline were ideal, then she wouldn't believe $p$.
That's because if she were ideal, she would have a lower credence in
$q$, and if that were the case, her credence in $p$ would have to be
much higher (close to 0.999) in order to count as a belief. So her
belief is not justified.

*Reply*: The premise here, that if Coraline were ideal she would not
believe that $p$, is true. The conclusion, that she is not justified in
believing $p$, does not follow. It's always a mistake to *identify* what
should be done with what is done in ideal circumstances. This is
something that has long been known in economics. The *locus classicus*
of the view that this is a mistake is @LipseyLancaster. A similar point
has been made in ethics in papers such as @Watson1977 and
@KennettSmith1996b [@KennettSmith1996a]. And it has been extended to
epistemology by @Williamson1998-WILCOK.

All of these discussions have a common structure. It is first observed
that the ideal is both $F$ and $G$. It is then stipulated that whatever
happens, the thing being created (either a social system, an action, or
a cognitive state) will not be $F$. It is then argued that given the
stipulation, the thing being created should not be $G$. That is not just
the claim that we shouldn't *aim* to make the thing be $G$. It is,
rather, that in many cases being $G$ is not the best way to be, given
that $F$-ness will not be achieved. Lipsey and Lancaster argue that (in
an admittedly idealised model) that it is actually quite unusual for $G$
to be best given that the system being created will not be $F$.

It's not too hard to come up with examples that fit this structure.
Following [@Williamson2000-WILKAI 209], we might note that I'm justified
in believing that there are no ideal cognitive agents, although were I
ideal I would not believe this. Or imagine a student taking a ten
question mathematics exam who has no idea how to answer the last
question. She knows an ideal student would correctly answer an even
number of questions, but that's no reason for her to throw out her good
answer to question nine. In general, once we have stipulated one
departure from the ideal, there's no reason to assign any positive
status to other similarities to the idea. In particular, given that
Coraline has an irrational view towards $q$, she won't perfectly match
up with the ideal, so there's no reason it's good to agree with the
ideal in other respects, such as not believing $p$.

Stepping back a bit, there's a reason the interest-relative theory says
that the ideal and justification come apart right here. On the
interest-relative theory, like on any pragmatic theory of mental states,
the *identification* of mental states is a somewhat holistic matter.
Something is a belief in virtue of its position in a much broader
network. But the *evaluation* of belief is (relatively) atomistic.
That's why Coraline is justified in believing $p$, although if she were
wiser she would not believe it. If she were wiser, i.e., if she had the
right attitude towards $q$, the very same credence in $p$ would not
count as a belief. Whether her state counts as a belief, that is,
depends on wide-ranging features of her cognitive system. But whether
the state is justified depends on more local factors, and in local
respects she is doing everything right.

*Objection*: If Coraline is justified in believing $p$, then Coraline
can use $p$ as a premise in practical reasoning. If Coraline can use $p$
as a premise in practical reasoning, and $p$ is true, and her belief in
$p$ is not Gettiered, then she knows $p$. By hypothesis, her belief is
true, and her belief is not Gettiered. So she should know $p$. But she
doesn't know $p$. So by several steps of modus tollens, she isn't
justified in believing $p$.[^29]

*Reply*: This objection this one turns on an equivocation over the
neologism 'Gettiered'. Some epistemologists use this to simply mean that
a belief is justified and true without constituting knowledge. By that
standard, the third sentence is false. Or, at least, we haven't been
given any reason to think that it is true. Given everything else that's
said, the third sentence is a raw assertion that Coraline knows that
$p$, and I don't think we should accept that.

The other way epistemologists sometimes use the term is to pick out
justified true beliefs that fail to be knowledge for the reasons that
the beliefs in the original examples from @Gettier1963 fail to be
knowledge. That is, it picks out a property that beliefs have when they
are derived from a false lemma, or whatever similar property is held to
be doing the work in the original Gettier examples. Now on this reading,
Coraline's belief that $p$ is not Gettiered. But it doesn't follow that
it is known. There's no reason, once we've given up on the JTB theory of
knowledge, to think that whatever goes wrong in Gettier's examples is
the *only* way for a justified true belief to fall short of knowledge.
It could be that there's a practical defeater, as in this case. So the
second sentence of the objection is false, and the objection again
fails.

Once we have an expansive theory of defeaters, as I've adopted here, it
becomes problematic to describe the case in the language Fantl and
McGrath use. They focus a lot on whether agents like Coraline have
'knowledge-level justification' for $p$, which is defined as
"justification strong enough so that shortcomings in your strength of
justification stand in the way of your knowing". [@FantlMcGrath2009 97].
An important part of their argument is that an agent is justified in
believing $p$ iff they have knowledge-level justification for $p$. I
haven't addressed this argument, so I'm not really addressing the case
on their terms.

Well, does Coraline have knowledge-level justification for $p$? I'm not
sure, because I'm not sure I grasp this concept. Compare the agent in
Harman's dead dictator case [@Harman1973 75]. Does she have
knowledge-level justification that the dictator is dead? In one sense
yes; it is the existence of misleading news sources that stops her
knowing. In another sense no; she doesn't know, but if she had better
evidence (e.g., seeing the death happen) she would know. I want to say
the same thing about Coraline, and that makes it hard to translate the
Coraline case into Fantl and McGrath's terminology.

[^1]: The reflections in the next few paragraphs are inspired by some
    comments by Stalnaker in his [-@Stalnaker2008], though I don't want
    to suggest the theory I'll discuss is actually Stalnaker's.

[^2]: Whether Doxastic or Non-Doxastic IRI is true about justified
    belief ascriptions turns on some tricky questions about what to say
    when a subject's credences are nearly, but not exactly appropriate
    given her evidence. Space considerations prevent a full discussion
    of those cases here. Whether I can hold onto the strict invariantism
    about claims about justified credences depends, I now think, on
    whether an interest-neutral account of evidence can be given.
    Discussions with Tom Donaldson and Jason Stanley have left me less
    convinced than I was in 2005 that this is possible, but this is far
    too big a question to resolve here.

[^3]: I mean here the case of Coraline, to be discussed in section 3
    below. Several people have remarked in conversation that Coraline
    doesn't look to them like a case of Ignorant High Stakes. This isn't
    surprising; Coraline is better described as being *mistaken* than
    *ignorant*, and she's mistaken about odds not stakes. If they're
    right, that probably means my argument for Non-Doxastic IRI is less
    like Stanley's, and hence more original, than I think it is. So I
    don't feel like pressing the point! But I do want to note that *I*
    thought the Coraline example was a variation on a theme Stanley
    originated.

[^4]: If we are convinced that the right decision is the one that
    maximises expected utility, there is a sense in which these
    questions collapse. For the expected utility theorist, we can solve
    Dom's question by making sure the states are logically exhaustive,
    and making the 'payouts' in each state be expected payouts. But the
    theory that the correct decision is the one that maximises expected
    utility, while plausibly true, is controversial. It shouldn't be
    assumed when we are investigating the semantics of decision tables.

[^5]: Assuming Alice's utility curve for money curves downwards, she
    should be looking for a slightly higher chance of winning than
    $\frac{1}{2}$ to place the bet, but that level of detail isn't
    relevant to the story we're telling here.

[^6]: I'm here retracting some things I said a few years ago in a paper
    on philosophical methodology [@Weatherson2003-WEAWGA]. There I
    argued that identifying knowledge with justified true belief would
    give us a theory on which knowledge was more natural than a theory
    on which we didn't identify knowledge with any other epistemic
    property. I now think that is wrong for a couple of reasons. First,
    although it's true (as I say in the earlier paper) that knowledge
    can't be primitive or perfectly natural, this doesn't make it less
    natural than justification, which is also far from a fundamental
    feature of reality. Indeed, given how usual it is for languages to
    have a simple representation of knowledge, we have some evidence
    that it is very natural for a term from a special science. Second, I
    think in the earlier paper I didn't fully appreciate the point
    (there attributed to Peter Klein) that the Gettier cases show that
    the property of being a justified true belief is not particularly
    natural. In general, when $F$ and $G$ are somewhat natural
    properties, then so is the property of being $F \wedge G$. But there
    are exceptions, especially in cases where these are properties that
    a whole can have in virtue of a part having the property. In those
    cases, a whole that has an $F$ part and a $G$ part will be
    $F \wedge G$, but this won't reflect any distinctive property of the
    whole. And one of the things the Gettier cases show is that the
    properties of *being justified* and *being true*, as applied to
    belief, fit this pattern.

    Note that even if you think that philosophers are generally too
    quick to move from instinctive reactions to the Gettier case to
    abandoning the justified true belief theory of knowledge, this point
    holds up. What is important here is that on sufficient reflection,
    the Gettier cases show that some justified true beliefs are not
    knowledge, and that the cases in question also show that being a
    justified true belief is not a particularly natural or unified
    property. So the point I've been making in the last this footnote is
    independent of the point I wanted to stress in "What Good are
    Counterexamples?", namely, that philosophers in some areas
    (especially epistemology) are insufficiently reformist in their
    attitude towards our intuitive reactions to cases.

[^7]: This issue is of course central to the plotline in @Hawthorne2004.

[^8]: Assume, perhaps implausibly, that the sudden appearance of the
    genie is evidentially irrelevant to the proposition that the
    musician is Beth. The reasons this may be implausible are related to
    the arguments in [@RunyonGuysDolls 14-15]. Thanks here to Jeremy
    Fantl.

[^9]: The idea that interest-relativity is a way of fending off
    scepticism is a very prominent theme in @FantlMcGrath2009.

[^10]: On the version of IRI I'm defending, Barry is free to be
    interested in whatever he likes. If he started wondering about
    whether it would be rational to take such a bet, he loses the
    knowledge that Beth is the musician, even if there is no genie and
    the bet isn't offered. The existence of the genie's offer makes the
    bet a practical interest; merely wondering about the genie's offer
    makes the bet a cognitive interest. But both kinds of interests are
    relevant to knowledge.

[^11]: As they make clear in their [-@Hawthorne2008-HAWKAA], Hawthorne
    and Stanley are interested in defending relatively strong premises
    linking knowledge and action independently of the argument for the
    interest-relativity of knowledge. What I'm doing here is showing how
    that conclusion does not rest on anything nearly as strong as the
    principles they believe, and so there is plenty of space to disagree
    with their general principles, but accept interest-relativity. The
    strategy here isn't a million miles from the point noted in Fantl
    and McGrath [-@FantlMcGrath2009 72n14] when they note that much
    weaker premises than the ones they endorse imply a failure of
    'purism'.

[^12]: I have more to say about those cases in section 2.2.

[^13]: Also note that I'm not taking as a premise any claim about what
    Barry knows after the bet is offered. A lot of work on
    interest-relativity has used such premises, or premises about
    related intuitions. This seems like a misuse of the method of cases
    to me. That's not because we should never use intuitions about
    cases, just that these cases are too hard to think that snap
    judgments about them are particularly reliable. In general, we can
    know a lot about cases by quickly reflecting on them. Similarly, we
    know a lot about which shelves are level and which are uneven by
    visual inspection, i.e., 'eyeballing'. But when different eyeballs
    disagree, it's time to bring in other tools. That's the approach of
    this paper. I don't have a story about why the various eyeballs
    disagree about cases like Barry's; that seems like a task best
    undertaken by a psychologist not a philosopher [@Ichikawa2009].

[^14]: This is obviously not a full argument against contextualism; that
    would require a much longer paper than this.

[^15]: See, for instance, @MBT2009, or @FeltzZarpentine2010.

[^16]: In the last two lines, I use $U(\phi)$ to denote the expected
    utility of $\phi$, and $U(\phi | p)$ to denote the expected utility
    of $\phi$ conditional on $p$. It's often easier to write this as
    simply $U(\phi \wedge p)$, since the utility of $\phi$ conditional
    on $p$ just is the utility of doing $\phi$ in a world where $p$ is
    true. That is, it is the utility of $\phi \wedge p$ being realised.
    But we get a nicer symmetry between the probabilistic principles and
    the utility principles if we use the explictly conditional notation
    for each.

[^17]: This is probably somewhat unrealistic. It's hard to think about
    whether $\Pr(p)$ is closer to 0.7 or 0.8 without raising to salience
    questions about, for example, what the second decimal place in
    $\Pr(p)$ is. This is worth bearing in mind when coming up with
    intuitions about the cases in this paragraph.

[^18]: See @Sturgeon2008-STURAT for discussion of a similar puzzle for
    anyone trying to tell a unified story of belief and credence.

[^19]: There are exceptions, especially in cases where $p$ concerns
    something significant to financial markets, and the agent trades
    financial products. If you work through the theory that I'm about to
    lay out, one consequence is that such agents should have very few
    unconditional beliefs about financially-sensitive information, just
    higher and lower credences. I think that's actually quite a nice
    outcome, but I'm not going to rely on that in the argument for the
    view.

[^20]: The presentation in this section, as in the earlier paper,
    assumes at least a weak form of consequentialism in the sense of
    @Hammond1988. This was arguably a weakness of the earlier paper.
    We'll return to the issue of what happens in cases where the agent
    doesn't, and perhaps shouldn't, maximise expected utility, at the
    end of the section.

[^21]: I'm borrowing this example from Fred Dretske, who uses it to make
    some interesting points about dispositional belief.

[^22]: The recipe here is similar to that given in
    @Weatherson2005-WEACWD, but the motivation is streamlined. Thanks to
    Jacob Ross for helpful suggestions here.

[^23]: Some consequentialists say that what the agent should do depends
    on whether $p$ is true. If $p$ is true, she should do $\psi$, and if
    $p$ is false she should do $\varphi$. As we'll see, I have reasons
    for thinking this is rather radically wrong.

[^24]: The target here is not directly the interest-relativity of their
    theories, but more general principles about the role of knowledge in
    action and assertion. Since my theories are close enough, at least
    in consequences, to Hawthorne and Stanley's, it is important to note
    how my theory handles the case.

[^25]: I'm more interested in the abstract structure of the case than in
    whether any real-life situation is modelled by just this structure.
    But it might be worth noting the rough kind of situation where this
    kind of situation can arise. So let's say Coraline has a particular
    bank account that is uninsured, but which currently paying 10%
    interest, and she is deciding whether to deposit another \$1000 in
    it. Then $p$ is the proposition that the bank will not collapse, and
    she'll get her money back, and $q$ is the proposition that the
    interest will stay at 10%. To make the model exact, we have to also
    assume that if the interest rate on her account doesn't stay at 10%,
    it falls to 0.1%. And we have to assume that the interest rate and
    the bank's collapse are probabilistically independent. Neither of
    these are at all realistic, but a realistic case would simply be
    more complicated, and the complications would obscure the
    philosophically interesting point.

[^26]: If she did compute the expected utility, then one of the things
    that would be salient for her is the expected utility of the bet.
    And the expected utility of the bet is different to its expected
    utility given $p$. So if that expected utility is salient, she
    doesn't believe $p$. And it's going to be important to what follows
    that she *does* believe $p$.

[^27]: The following isn't Fantl's example, but I think it makes much
    the same point as the examples he suggested.

[^28]: Thanks here to a long blog comments thread with Jeremy Fantl and
    Matthew McGrath for making me formulate these points much more
    carefully. The original thread is at
    <http://tar.weatherson.org/2010/03/31/do-justified-beliefs-justify-action/>.

[^29]: Compare the 'subtraction argument' on page 99 of
    @FantlMcGrath2009.
